
# Background

After the power of That-Which-Endures mutated the verdan, my parents both eventually made their way to Athkatla, in Amn. It was there that they met, fell in love, and made me. They were both "jack-of-all-trades" types, involved in many enterprizes and made a decent living, considering. They gave themselves the family name Vickies when they married because, coincidentally, they had both taken the name Vicky at some point in their past. They named me Vernon because they thought it sounded cheerful and friendly and they wanted me to have a lot of friends. I think they also had a thing for alliteration, or maybe just the letter V. When I was still an infant, one of the many corrupt government officials of the city tricked many people in our neighboorhood into some bad investments that ended with them losing their home, all their money, and ruining their reputation (so any claims made against the official would go unsubstantiated). We, along with many others, were forced to move into the slums and my parents struggled to find work due to their ruined reputation. It wasn't long thereafter that a sickness spread through the slums and took many lives, including my parents. My parents were well liked in the area and I was taken care of by some of their elvish friends from the old neighbourhood who had also been victims of the corrupt official and were now in the slums. The squalid conditions were hard on them and it was only a few years before they too were dead. I was left with little choice except a life of petty crime in order to scrape by. That is, until a magnificent dwarf "merchant" named Whutun Brownthane passed through and changed my life forever. He was a master of deception and specialized in lightening the coffers of the elite. He saw potential in me and took me under his wing. Whutun said I was a natural in the heat of the moment (meaning I could talk/lie my way out of most situations) but that I wasn't smart enough to avoid those situations in the first place. He tried to install planning and critical thinking in me, but they didn't stick. I still take things as they come and hope for the best instead of worrying about what might happen, sometimes to my detriment.

Whutun was a good fellow but he was less concerned with righting wrong and more concerned with making money and not getting caught. He didn't care if the rich deserved to lose money and he never took all they had, or even enough to ruin them... usually. I was more interested in taking EVERYTHING from what I saw as evil people getting rich at the expense of the poor and vulnerable, and then givning my earnings to the ones that need it most. Our motivations didn't align enough for us to be professional partners, so once I graduated from the Brownthane school of charlantry, we amicably parted ways. I will always be greatful to him for the kindness he showed me and the skills he imparted. I spent several of my adult years travelling from city to city, fleecing a few corrupt bureaucrats and nobles in each, before moving on to the next. 

On one fateful occassion, I was posing as an elf in the house staff for a particularly nasty noble to gain info in order to steal his fortune and destroy him. I soon discovered he was not just corrupt, but evil, crazy, and stupid. He had summoned a demon to make a pact with in order to have his business competitors destroyed (why not just hire assassins? Like I said, stupid.). The demon demanded a sacrifrice before he would provide any services so the noble called for one of his staff - me. Being the smooth talker that I am, I stalled the nobleman and convinced him to let me parley with the demon to get him a better deal. Obviously, I  didn't care about the nobleman's plans, I just didn't want the demon to devour my soul. The demon seemed intrigued by me and made a deal that if I killed the nobleman then he "would not consume my soul this day". I normally didn't kill my marks, but they often succumbed to something not long after I stole every copper they had and ruined their reputation, so actually killing one didn't seem that much to ask, so I did it. I was under a lot of pressure, staring into the face of a demon for the first time, with a man not-so-patiently waiting behind me ready to kill me, so I didn't think things all the way through. What I failed to realise was that I wasn't getting the demon the spare my soul, I was getting him to spare it -for now-. Of course that means I now have to keep killing in order to appease the morbid obsession of my new demon friend... So from then on I was a warlock. Oops.

This new arrangement didn't stop me from fleecing nobles and my demonic patron doesn't seem to care that I give the money I steal away to the poor, which is nice of him. The only problem is that he requires that I cause more death and descruction than I'm comfortable with. Instead of just tricking nobles out of their fortunes and letting life take them down however it sees fit, the demon on my back insists I kill them myself, which can get messy and complicated. Not that I mind them being dead, they were human garbage, but it makes it much harder to get away cleanly. Luckily he bestowed upon me the means to deal out the death and destruction he longs for. There isn't a pattern to when he requires a death and he never stipulates who I kill, he just sends a message, by various means, that says "someone must die by sundown tomorrow or I will devour your soul". He always communicates with me in Infernal, but our pact seems to have included fluency in the language so I'm able to understand him. He seems to be watching me, as I almost always receive such a message the day before an important part of whatever current plan I'm working on, which means I either put my plan on hold to find someone that deserves to die, or I just kill the person I'm stealing from.

Because of these increased pressures, I'm taking a break from "mass wealth redistribution" to search out more "violence appropriate" ways to make the world a better place in order to appease both my conscience and the appetite of my patron. If it gets to a point where I must choose between doing what I think is right and having my demon "friend" consume my soul, or commit a heinous act of violence to keep my soul... I like to think I'll choose death,  but I don't know.
