
# Entry 18 - Mushroom drama
<span class="journaldate">2020/09/30</span>
  
We were about to cut up the worm when the two guides Loobamud sent with us tell us that they want the corpse whole so they can reanimate it. It's too big for us to carry back so they decide to wait and guard the corpse while we head back and send more hunters to help them.

When we get to the Circle of Hunters there are fewer mycanids around than when we left. Dezo explains to Loobamud the situation with the body and Loobamud expresses dissapointment that we didn't just bring the whole thing back in one piece, as if it would be that easy! We killed this thing for them for free (basically...) and then they complain we didn't gift wrap the body for them too? A bit rude I'd say. Lobbamud tells us that Basidia is looking for us but he doesn't know where she is, but she might be at the Circle of Explorers and points us in the right direction.

We head off and when we get there we see mycanids that seem much more "human-like". They carry tools, wepons and pouches and even address each other with a bit of a head nod, whereas most mycanids make no physical display of communication at all. As we approach the group their leader (I assume) confronts us and asks what we're doing here. We explain the situation and he relaxes a bit but isn't overly friendly. He says Basidia isn't here but will give us a couple guides/guards to bring us to her. As we're about to leave he says we shouldn't come back here without Basidia. Dezo asks about if we're looking for Basidia and he says something along the lines of "yes, you can look for her, but don't come here without here". This confuses and bothers Dezo and he questions the logic of this dufus who just repeats himself. This annoys me, and I let my frustration get the better of me. I use Mask of Many Faces to turn myself into Basidia and ask if it's ok for us to walk around now? This angers and frightens them. They calm down a bit when I change back and I almost immediately regret shwoing my trump card so soon. Oh well. We head off and I consider the event forgiven and forgotten by all...wishful thinking? We'll see.

As we're walking we see Stoop talking to a very tall and skinny mycanid. We stop to talk to him but as we approach the tall one wuickly approcahes us to spore us (yup, definitely a verb) and sned panic and indignation. It tells us to stop and go no further because this place is sacred. There are giant locust/coackroach things going in and out of big ~15ft holes in the ground doing something with pods, like they're caretakers of the pods.

Once we backoff the tall one leaves and we have a little chat with Stoop. He can feel the difference between some of the mycanids. He can't explain what it is, but some 'feel like him' and some feel different. The tall one feels different and was talking about the Great Seeder so he must be with Philo. He says Basidia seems like him, so that's good. Stoop decides to come with us to see Basidia so we head back on our way togeyher.

We reach Basidia's residence and our escorts go back to the Circle of Explorers. Basidia asks us about our plans to get to the upper plateau since she's been "locked out" and doens't know what's been going on. I feel a bit guilty because I kind of forgot about it. I was just focusing on killing the monsters and not dying. We need to come up with a plan but we also need to rest to recover from the last battle. Basidia says she'll hide us at her place since we don't know when Phylo will want us to "join the celebration". We decide that we will take up Philo's offer of hospitality once we've rested. 

Since my disguise trick is out of the bag I decide to have Basidia help me to blend in better when I'm transformed. Turns out, there isn't any special way mycanids walk so I don't need to worry about that, but if I get within ~60ft of a mycanid and it tries to communicate with me it will know somethings up because I won't be communicating back. So I need to pick my disguise carefully and try not to get close to anyone, or try at least not be seen by anyone closer than 60ft. 

I do some training with Xaphan to be able to use his eyes while I walk around so that I can see in the dark. While I'm doing this Dezo is learning some stuff from Basidia but I'm pretty focused on my own thing so I'm not really sure what they're doing. The others spend some time identifying the various scrolls and such that we have in case any of them are useful. I can use a few of them but I don't know who much they'll help us.