
# Entry 10 - Worms are gross
<span class="journaldate">2020/07/20</span>
  
Once I detach myself from the rope I cast Spider Climb and start walking up the pillar with ease (a nice change for me). Dezo turns into a giant lizard and scrambles up ahead of me. Zackaham also makes a good start of climbing the pillar. My intention is to tie a rope above so those below can more easily scale the sheer face of the pillar without falling to their death. As I'm walking up Xaphan tells me there is something large moving towards us under the sand.

Before I make it very far up the beetle swarm that had been after Yuk-Yuk catches up to him and engulfes him. They really go at him seem to be ripping him apart. Spider-Bait screams and tries to pull Yuk-Yuk out of the swarm to drag him away from the beetles. This seems to work but Yuk-Yuk is unconcious and doesn't look to be in good shape. As the last of us reaches the base of the pillar a giant sand-worm-thing burst out of the ground. It has hundred of tiny feet, two big eyes and tenatacles coming out of its face.

The worm hits Fargas and bites into Iankul, trying to devour him.

Zahkam reaches halfway up the approximately 100 foot tall pillar, which is hourglass-ish shaped, and throws a rope down for Spider-Bait to tie to Yuk-Yuk he can be pulled up. When I get to the top I tie my rope around a rock and have Xaphan bring the other end down to Zackham to tie them together. I've only have 30 seconds experience using Spider Climb at this point but have already forgotten most people need their hands to climb vertical rock. Unsurprisingly, Zackham has trouble staying on the wall while trying to tie two ropes together and he almost falls. I tell Xaphan to tie the ropes together but I didn't think to ask him how good he was with tying knots. Apparently, he isn't great, because as soon as he let the ropes go they just fell apart. Luckily, no-one was hanging from it yet. Xaphan races after the falling rope and I head down to do the tying myself once he retrieves it since a) I can use both hands without fear of falling, and b) I know how to tie knots.

While I walk down I hear what sounds like Gilberto falling off the pillar on the other side. It sounds painful but like something he'll be able to walk off. Around the same time, Spider-Bait throwns something that made a big blast and seemed to distort space and make the worm implode for a moment before re-expanding. It looks like it did a lot of damage. I remember I have those smoke bomb things from the duargar and take one out to maybe stun the worm with. However, I think about how accurate my throwing arm is and the fact that the smoke will likely hit my comprades whether my aim is good or not, and decide against it and just unleash some magic. It feels weird aiming from a horizontal position and most of my attacks miss but I do make at least one solid hit.

Others are attacking the beast and it eventually has enough and runs (swims? slimes? squirms?) away.

We get the ropes tied and everyone makes it up to the platform. Gilberto, Yuk-Yuk, and Iankul are all pretty hurt but they'll live. We decide to have a short rest to heal up before moving on.

The cave ahead of us forks in two direction so I send Xaphan down the left path while Dezo, who doesn't need to heal, explores the other. While we rest I examine the nice sword that we found at the duargar camp. It turns out it's Iankul's sword, and it's pretty awesome. I return it to him and we wait for the scouts to return.

Dezo was attacked by some blood sucking bugs but they just wanted a drink, not to kill him, so they left after a short meal. That was enough for him though, so he returned after that. Xaphan had better luck and found some collapsed ceilings that resulted in a tunnel leading up that ends in a large cavern. It would be a tight fit but we should all make it.

At camp Fargas and the goblins seem to have bonded a bit. Fargas had thrown a special ointment to Spider-Bait when Yuk-Yuk got hurt, which was very well received. Silly Spider_bait left the jar at the bottom of the pillar though, and it has sentimental value to Fargas so I had Xaphan go get it. 

The injured still hurt, but they can move, so we continue on our way. It is slow moving through the tunnel in the collapsed ceilings. While we're going the ground starts to rumble and gradually increases into what feels like a serious earthquake. We frantically scramble out of the tunnel into the large cavern Xaphan had found. The cavern is dark and damp and we can hear dripping water in the distance.

Before we have a chance to explore there is another earthquake, even stronger this time. It it so violent that stalactites fall from the ceiling and we are bounced around between the stalagmites. This lasts about 5 minutes and we are a bit worse for wear once it finally subsides. I notice that instead of water dripping, I hear water rushing.
