
# Entry 23 - ?
<span class="journaldate">2020/11/25</span>
  
Basidia knows of a safe place we can go so she leads us waya. As we go there are no more bioluminescent mushrooms or soft ground. We transition to pitch black and stone. THe tunnel gradually narrows until have to crouch and are brushing against the walls. We get to a ledge and descend a collection of small cliffs. Eventually, we arrive at a place Basidia considers safe and we begin to explain what happened to us. Verril leads the explanation to Basidia. Basidia is confused and curious. Verril says Yestebrod was the great seeder but he called it a "he" and Basidia says Phylo called the great seeder "she". Silly Verril.

Dezo appologizes for attaching Rashoroo and Vasidia says we should appologize to Rasharoo directly.

I try explaining about the weird vision we had of the purple room but I can't remember enough details for it to make sense to her. Basidia expresses fear and worry. We see that this is working so we decide to try melding with them in order to share our memories and hopefully she'll be able to make sense of what we saw. We should be well rested before attempting to meld so we try to rest. I curl up in the corner with Xaphan and sleep **_hard_**. I got knocked out several times in these fights. More than once by having things explode in my face. I am exhausted and despite what's going on I have no trouble falling into a deep sleep right away.

As I'm sleeping I awak to a building laugh that reaches a full on cackle. My patron is laughing at me for killing myself. He says it bought me some time but I still have to kill one of these people soon. *???What???* Something seems off with my patron. Something more odd than usual, but I can't put my finger on it. This is troubling but not my top concern at the moment.

I startle awake following this disturbing interaction with my patron. There is a big light, like the palm of a giant hand made of light that covers me and squahses me down. I feel hot and cold like I've got the flu. Once that's done (whatever it is) I pass out almost immediately and finish sleeping.

---

We all meld with the mycanids.

<div style="border:10px solid red">**NOT DONE. FINISH THIS JOURNAL ENTRY**</div>

