
# Entry 13 - Goodbye goblins
<span class="journaldate">2020/08/17</span>

Stoop says he needs about a cycle (~6 hours) to do what he needs to do. We take a nice long rest. I take first watch and decide to investigate some of our loot. I take the blue fizzy potion and give it all my attention... I mean, I give it some of my attention while still keeping vigilant in my watch duties. 

The potion smells sour/fermented. I dip my finger in for a taste. It's very sweet and lemon-y. It gives me a feeling of invigoration. After a bit more careful stufy I determine it's a potion of heroism! Great find.

I hear some chittering that transitions into hisses and growls. I also hear muffled sounds from the covered mushrooms. Uh oh. The creatures sound a ways off though, so I wake Verril, give him the potion since it will be most useful to him, and go to sleep. He'll keep us safe.

I am woken later by a strong breeze. Stoop is now about 4 feet tall with arms and legs and a face-ish thing with 6 eyes and big mushroom cap that emanates a faint teal-blue light around him. Dezo is talking to him. Apparently Stoop sucked the life out of the save's mushrooms and produced a slightly poisonous fog. Dezo woke us so we could move away for safety's sake as we finish our rest. Stoop addresses us and seems his usual self, he just got a lot bigger and can walk around on his own now.

After everyone is rested up Yuk-Yuk and Spiderbait let us know they will be parting ways from us since this is an area they are familiar with. They were a good couple of golbins. I never made us of the goblin tongue with them. We could have been laughing at the others right in front of their faces or shits and giggles, oh well. I happily give them their share of our money (2/7) and wish them well on their travels.

We set off following Stoop for several hours with lots of tunnels and turns. We get feelings of being "nudged" by Stoop as we go. It makes it nice, not having to worry about the direction we're going in. We are led into a canyon and gets very tight at one point but we trust Stoop and continue on. It eventually starts to get warm and damp as the path widens and we can hear dripping ahead. As we continue we see signs of vegetation, a river, and out of nowhere, *two drow standing perfectly still just staring at us from about 20 feet away!*

This is a bit shocking but they don't seem to care about us. They don't respond when I pat them on the face with Mage Hand or when I try to communicate with my limited telepathy. Zackham goes up to them to investigate but Dezo and I warn him to be careful and investigate the surrounding area. We don't find anything of interest but Stoop tells us they are sentinels of the mycanids.

That people can be turned into "sentinels" troubles me a bit since it seems we're walking into the sentinel-making-haven. I ask Stoop if he would help keep us non-sentineled and he says he would argue against us be turned into sentinels once we reach Neverlight Grove. He just got his legs a few hours ago so I don't know how much "argue power" he has, but at least he's on our side.

We cross a small river and come accross a mushroom do "something" (I didn't quite see) and let out a cloud of smoke. We can hear weird voices and Dezo asks Stoop if this is a friend or foe but the mushroom responds for itself and says in our minds, "friend".