
# Entry 7 - Titan beetles. I'm not a fan
<span class="journaldate">2020/05/03</span>
  
Following the visions of Boopido's murders I can feel my magical powers have restored to their normal strength. So my soul is safe... for now.

I examine Boopido's body and discover a luminous fog that feels cold coming from within his corpse. I find a blue crystal with purple etching. It's pulsing and released the cold fog. It has a thin rope tied around it. I'll save it for later, it's clearly magical and could be useful. I also found two pouches. One is a small coin purse with some money and gems that I add to our growing collection of wealth.

The other bag appeared empty but it's a magic bag! Anything you put inside dissapears but if you put your hand in and think of an item that in the bag then it will materialize in you hand. It's a bag of holding! This is an awesome find! I'm sure Verril will find wonderful _(\*cough\*_ dangerous _\*cough\*)_ things to fill it with in no time.

Gilberto seems to hear something and suddenly there is a crossbow bolt sticking out of Nezanr. A drow attack!

The battle is over fairly quickly but Nezanr and Gilberto go down. A drow mage managed to run away as the battle was ending but with two downed comrades we decided to just let him go. Dezo revives Neznar and he drinks his health potion. We almost lost Gilberto but we managed to give him his health potition before he was too far gone to be saved.

We decided to leave before the drow mage could return with reinforcements. Our guides led us further on instead of backtracking, which I was glad for as it seemed to be away from the drow... at least, the drow we just fought.

As we walk we eventually get away from the purple crystals and their haze. We end up at a crossroads where Yuk-Yuk and Spiderbait talk about going down one of the paths but Neznar pushes them along the other path saying "You don't want to go that way." Yuk-Yuk nods dissapointedly. I'm guessing there is something "interesting" the way the golbins wanted to go but also something dangerous. Maybe a few days/weeks ago I would have asked them about that other path and been more curious, but now I just want to get out of the underdark.

We spend hours walking, mostly upward. We arrive in a large cavern with aurora like lights near the ceiling. It's beautiful, and it coincides with the rocky floor being replaced by sand. As we enter the sand area ours ears pop and the hairs on the back of necks stand up. That's not a great sign.

The aurora like lights high up in the cavern swirl around and occasionally collide with each other, release a burst of light and sound. The sounds released range from thunder to the children's laughter to the sounds of war.

Fargas checks his map and claims that this is 'the titan' that the map speaks of. Neznar confirms this. The map says "traverse it, beware its contents, exit upwards". *'Beware its contents'*. Super duper.

Yuk-Yuk and Spiderbait lead the way across the sands. Before long, Dezo sees and yells out "There's something in the sand!". I try to run to the side but my foot falls into a funnel and something latches onto my leg. I try to get away but can't get a purchase on anything in the loose sand. Verril runs to solid ground and throws me a rope. He botches the throw and it lands way out of reach. Gilberto runs over to me and pulls me out of the sand funnel.

While this was going on, other funnels opened up in the sand nearby. Once I was out of the funnerl the sand stopped sliding down and started coming back out. Then suddenly, large beetles started flowing out of the funnel. I try to blast them with *burning hands* and I manage to kill dozens of them, but many more keep come flowing out behind the dead ones. After seeing the lack of effect of my most powerful spell, I turn and run.

Other swarms start emerging from the various funnels that have opened up. Dezo shoots at a swarm but his bolt has less effect than my magic did. Verril also charges in and swinges his sword at the swarm but that is also innefectual. Verril, Gilberto, and Dezo get enveloped by swarms of beetles. Luckily, they manage to shake of the bugs and get away from the swarms. We all start to run and thankfully the swarms don't move very quickly. New funnels open up as we run so we can't let up until we finally see a campfire in the distance. 

As we approach the fire we see a lone figure next a wagon. There is another wagon half buried in the sand. As we get closer we see that the lone figure is a duergar (underdark dwarf) on an area of solid ground. The duergar is talking to himself and there are fresh skeletons near the edge of the solid ground. They look like they've been picked clean by bugs as they were trying to reach the safety of this area. We see an empty steeder shell (the duergar beasts of burden that Yuk-Yuk pointed out to us back on the Silken Path).

We all gather together on the solid ground and it seems safe enough. Shortly after arriving we hear a muffled scream from one of the wagons. The duergar mumbles and goes over to the wagon and bangs on it. He takes a sphere and does something to to it so it begins to smoke. He opens a hatch in the wagon and tosses the smoking sphere into it. We hear coughing and smoke starts to seep out of the seems in the wagon.

We have escaped the beetles for now, but what have we stepped into now?
