
# Entry 9 - A new friend!
<span class="journaldate">2020/07/13</span>
  
As Verril continued to struggle against his ropes he began to loosen them so I grabbed some of the salver chains that were lying about and run to use them on him but just before I reach him he manages to get an arm free and grabs me. The chains are more just hanging on him than containing him. He makes good use of my blunder and grabs the chain and whips them around like a... whip and solidly hits me in the head. What iron-y heh heh heh. Everyone then joins together (except Neznar, they weren't able to save him) and we finally get Verril tightly secured with the chains. 

During the scuffle I noticed a ring on Verril's finger that I don't remember seeing before. I find this intriguing so I attempt to sneak it off his finger with Mage Hand but as soon as it starts to move he gets a panicked looked in his eyes and makes a tight fist to keep the ring on. I try to force it off but my Mage Hand is no match for his real hand. Yuk-Yuk gets fed up with this silly contest and jumps on Verril and starts bashing him in the head with the pommel of his dagger. This works wonderfully and Verril loses consciousness. As he does I yank off the ring.

Verril comes to pretty quickly and the change in his behaviour is immediate. He is appologizing profusely and clearly feels terrible about trying to kill us all. He doens't specifically mention hitting me in the head with a chain, but I'll let it slide. Apparently he was conscious for all of it but was just a passenger in his body without any control. Some entity was controlling him and it's obviously tied to the ring somehow. Verril has no idea how or where he got the ring or how/when it got on his finger. While we talk about I keep holding it in my Mage Hand because I'm hesitant to touch it. 

After some discussion we decide to just throw the ring into the sand as far as possible. It's potentially very valuable (even though it looks old and shabby) and is clearly very powerful, but we are hesitant to carry it around until we can have it properly studied. We've had enough nighttime murders to last us at least a month before we invite more of that nonsense into our lives. So decide to play it safe by going back to bed before setting out into the death desert of killer beetles...

I take first watch with Dezo (just in case the ring comes back or... *something*). I realize I never checked all the contents of Boopido's bag of holding that I took from him. I turn it inside out to have all the contents fall out and I almost immediately regret it. Nothing but eyeballs. Several different species, all discustingly fresh and wet and squishy, piling up at my feet until finally that cold crystal plops on top of them. I brush off the crystal and put it bag in the bag and just leave the eyebals where they are. I also feel better about killing Boopido. Not that I needed any more reasons (I'm still haunted by the visions I saw after his death) but who collects eyeballs? That's just weird. Oh well, I freed up some space (I know it's negligible) and also learned that things kept in the bag stay fresh for longer than normal. If I didn't know better I would have thought those eyes had been removed from at most a few minutes ago. My watch ends without incident and  head to bed.

A few minutes before I wake up I get a visit from my patron. Apparently it's happy with me at the moment and has bestowed upon me a familiar! Of course, it doesn't say it's giving me a familiar, it just says it's happy with me (and makes it clear that that can easily change) and is giving me a gift. After the communication ends I feel claws land on chest and walk across me. This is of course terriffying at first but the gentleness of the contact makes it clear that it isn't going to harm me. As I calm down I notice a new presence in my mind, it's Xaphan the imp! I'm sure we'll be buddies in no time. As I start to become fully awake he walks off, invisible, into the darkness.

Once we all get up I have everyone shows their hands just to  make sure the ring didn't do any funny business. Everyone's hands are ring free which is a good start. Yuk-Yuk also things he saw the way out when one of those Aurora flash things went off a few hundred feet away. He says there is a platform or something that might have be the way out. I let everyone know about my new familiar and we decide to send it as a scout first with me looking through it's eyes. There is nothing much between us and the platform except sand and some pillars so we set off. I have Xaphan keep looking ahead and to report back if he find the actual exit or anything dangerous. 

As we walk, unsurprisingly, I step into another beetle pit. I'm in the lead because I know where to go since I saw the way through Xaphan's eyes, but he was flying, not walking. Verril tries to pull me out but ends up also falling in. We're thrown some rope and pulled out and luckily, no beetle swarms attack us. A few beetles come out but then just go back in. Someone, (Dezo I think?) has the genious idea of tying us all together so if anyone steps in a hole we can pull them out quickly. When I say 'anyone', I of course mean me. I step in two more holes before we make it to the pillar with the platform. Verril yanks me out of them before I get stuck in them, thankfully, but beetles swarms come out of them and we can hear a loud deep noise behind us as if something large is following us. This makes us want to go faster, and is part of why I stepped in those stupid holes. That and the fact that I have two people in my head and I'm not used to it so I was a bit distracted.

By the time we get to the pillar Yuk-Yuk has some beetles on his heels but is doing ok but Gilberto is in pretty rough shape from one of them. Along with the familiar, I also learned a new spell from my patron called Spider Climb which is perfect right now. I can run up the pillar with the rope and tie it off so everyone else can climb it and get up to the platform so we can get out of this death desert. I yell at everyone to untie themselves from the rope and come around to the far side of the pillar away from the beetles. Hopefully we can all make it out of here.

