
# Entry 22 - Not out of the woods yet
<span class="journaldate">2020/11/18</span>

As we make our escape the mounds seem to be shifting in a way we haven't seen before. Suddenly, all the mounds around us release aloud shriek in unison. We hurry along and as we get away from them they quiet down but then ones now near us let out a scream. Gilberto and Zackham start to wake up so we can pick up the pace.
  
As we get back to the Garden of Welcome some of the slim feminine looking mycanids step out from the trees and attack us. We manage to defeat them without too much trouble but as things settle down we notice heavy steps reverberating in the groud coming from behind us. Not good. We realize that speed is now much more important than stealth so we set off for Basidia's place.

As we round a corner in the Garden of Welcome we see more mycanids and Gilberto hits one with a bolt from his hand-crossbow. I try to finish it off with an Elritch Blast but miss, as usual. It turns out my bad aim was fortuitous because we know these mycanids and they're on our side! They're from the Circle of Explorers and came to help. With that cleared up we leave quickly as the heavy steps are getting closer. Xaphan warns me that we need to get out quickly.

As we get out of the Garden of Welcome Lubido and Basidia, with a bunch of other mycanids and spore servants, are waiting for us. Stoop and some of the other younglings are there too. Basidia asks us to take control of their forces in order to battle Phylo since they do not have experience with large scale battles. We can hear that Phylo is getting close so we pick a spot to stand our ground. We use the spore servants as a shield and try to pick some off from a distance. Iankul and I are in the back with our long range attacks while Verril and Zackhkam are behind the front lines directing the troops. Dezo and Gilberto are guaring the younglings. This is definitely the largest scale battle I've been in. It's intense.

While the battle rages, Basidia, Lupido (leader of the circle of hunters), and Rasharoo (leader of the circle of explorers) manage to open a hole in the wall for us to escape into. Most of the spore servants and some of the mycanids were lost but our party and all the younglings are fine.

In this tight cave we prepare to make our final stand. It is much more in our favour than the wide open space we were in before. We hastily set up our forces at the end of the tight tunnel before it opens up into a larger cavern. Some huge tree monsters (Zerkwood) are causing a lot of damage to our forces. Basidia was communing with a big muchroom on the wall and managed to create a bit of a cave in by having roots quickly grow and push rocks out of the ceiling. She manages to kill several of the enemy and hurt the Zerkwood. The Zerkwood then charges in and I try to stop it using the last charge of my Bara'ul's crystal to power up my Eldritch Blast. This is the last charge and I know there's a change it could be destroyed when using the last charge but the situation calls for drastic action. That was a mistake. Immediately after my blast slams into the Zerkwood the crystal started emitting a green light and then some cracks started forming just before it exploded in my face, incapacitating me. The crystal disintegrated and return to the nine hells, lost to me forever.

While I was "dead" the mycanids swarmed and finished off the Zerkwood. Verril gave me potion to revive me as another Zerkwood enters the far end of the cave. Basidia causes another cave in and seals the tunnel. There are huge roots sticking out of the ceiling where the rocks fell from but they quickly retreat back into the rock and Basidia releases the mushroom she was "talking to" and tried to walk towards us but stumbles from exhaustion. She says she has done all she can but we need to move from here and find somewhere to put in a foothold and talk in safety.