
# Entry 2 - Murder in the night
<span class="journaldate">2020/01/25</span>

Zahkam woke me up and took over watch. I feel bad about falling asleep but I know it wasn't my fault. I've got a lot to think about so I gladly let Zahkam take over as I try to fall into a natural sleep to get some real rest.

I was rudely awoken by Verril slapping me, and apparently everyone else as well, because he saw something while on watch. During the night Vawyn was murdered. Not regular murder though, ritualistically, with her intestines spread around her in a circle and all of her organs removed from her body. Neznar isn't around but he left his belongings (Gilberto checked for clues in his stuff).

Verril and I laid Vawyn's body to rest as nicely as we could with a grave of piles rocks. We all investigated the scene of the crime and Dezo discovered that she had her neck broken and had several other wounds but it wasn't clear what the killing blow had been. Her body was dragged from her bed to where the mutilated body was left on display. The were no bloody footprints or other marks around the body, which was concerning. 

While Gilberto saw Neznar coming up the tunnel and went to confront him. Stoop's spores, which help us understand each other regardless of our language had worn off so Gilberto and Neznar couldn't understand each other. Neznar could tell something had happened so he stormed into camp and a lot of yelling followed. Eventually, Dezo got Prince Darrendil to grab Neznar so we could interogate him. We all got some spores from Stoop and communication could finally begin in earnest.

Neznar genuinely doesn't seem to know what had happened. He had been out gathering supplies and has a sack of mushrooms so I'm inclined to believe him. He also made an argument about not wasting time with a ritual like that if he wanted to kill someone. He escaped from Prince Darrendil's grasp and waiped his hand on the prince's mouth and it came away bloody. Darrendil doesn't seem to know where the blood came from, which hints at some kind of possession or him losing himself to his Quaggoth form (p.s. I learned he's an elf in the body of a Quaggoth... I've gotten mixed up with some weird people. What the hell is a Quaggoth? Other than a huge super strong thing? Apparently they are usually kind of dumb and 'beastly'). He doens't seem a likely candidate for the ritualistic killing of Vawyn. If she had been savagely ripped to pieces, maybe. But he'd be covered in more blood, there wouldn't just be some in his mouth.

I tried accusing the gnome (Boopido) to see if he would panic and confess but he genuinely seems disturbed by the whole thing. I bit of a confrontation happened between Gilberto and me over the accusation of Boopido and I ended up telling everyone about my demon patron and his instructions to kill Vawyn or Boopido. They were less than thrilled and Boopido definitely doesn't like or trust me.

Zahkam and myself really wanted to get moving but Gilberto, and maybe Dezo, wanted to stay and figure out who the killer was. The lack of bloody footprints was puzzling so we shot an illuminated cross bow bolt up into the air and discovered that the cavern is REALLY high. Maybe something came down and killed her? How would it do it so quietly that no one woke up? When did it happen? Zahkam didn't see anything on watch. If it happened when I was asleep, it happened quickly, before Zahkam woke up. He can't see in the dark so I suppose it makes sense that he didn't notice a dead body...

Zahkam is a moron with a ridiculously inappropriate sense of humour. In other circumstances I probably would have laughed, but he claimed to have killed Vawyn. He was only joking, in an attempt to get us to leave. We eventually believed him when he said he was joking, but damn, what an idiot.

Eventually, Zahkam and I managed to convince everyone that there was nothing to be gained from staying so we finally left. We continued to talk as we walked, still trying to figure out who could have done it. I'm leaning towards someone or something outside our party, but I don't know how or why. I'm also puzzled and concerned why my demon chose Vawyn and Boopido as my options for killing. I also don't know what happens now that Vawyn already died. Does that mean I have to kill Boopido, or does it mean it's done? I wasn't given a time limit so I'll just do nothing for now. I told Boopido as much, but I'm pretty sure he still thinks I want to kill him. 

Eventually, we came to a cavern with a pool. A few of us drank and filled our canteens, but Verril (maybe stupider than Zahkam) jumped right in, almost fully clothed. He started panaicking and flailing so I tried to throw him a rope...but I've never thrown a rope before and I failed misserable. Zahkam came and helped me and we dragged Verril out of the water. He had gotten bitten by some underwater creature with long tentacles that we could just barely make out. We quickly moved on from there.

We came to another cavern with many types of mushrooms around. This is where Neznar had come for supplies. I asked him which mushrooms were the best and after he pointed some out, I started collecting them with Gilberto. Verril went off and started eating other mushrooms which ended up poisoning him (definitely dumber than Zahkam, by a lot). Dezo made a fire from some dried compost like materials so we could cook the mushrooms and then went to investigate something. Gilberto went to give Dezo some mushrooms when suddenly a fungus-undead "thing" came apart from the wall and attacked Dezo. This creature was attached to another in the wall and it soon also detached and joined the fight. These creatures seemed to all be attached to each other in a way and the room was soon full of them. A fierce battle followed and we suffered several injuries but no casualties. Neznar had gone to the other end of the cavern and began cutting the "roots" of the monsters before they came out of the wall. He was only able to get a few before the rest were all out and attacking us. Prince Darrendil want mad with rage and savagely destroyed a few of the monsters. Dorn took a few knocks but seems ok. Verril is barely hanging on. There were some poisonous mushrooms on the ground that released a toxis cloud when stepped on. Prince Darrendil, Dorn, and Verril were all affected. Dezo, Gilberto, Neznar, and myself are in good condition. Boopido is also fine, since he ran and hid during the fight. This was my first real battle with "monsters". Having allies in the front to keep the enemy away from me made things much easier for me, which is good, because I panicked and my first few shots went horribly wide. I got into my stride after that though, and think I did alright.

After the battle Gilberto and I checked the bodies. Among the 10+ corpses we found a few ancient looking sacs/pouches that had some niceties inside. We found some gold, silver, and gemstones as well as a mysterious potion. It contains a cloudy green coagulated-looking liquid and the condition of the cork implies magic. It could be useful but it could also be dangerous. 

We need to tend to our wounds before continuing on to Neverlight Grove.

*I just remembered something... Neznar has that weird mark on his face and mutters to himself a lot. Maybe he has a split personallity or gets possessed or something? I believe him when he says he wouldn't kill Vawyn like that, but what if* he *didn't, but something inside him did, or someone/something used his body to do it? I should bring this us to the group.*

