
# Entry 14 - Neverlight Grove
<span class="journaldate">2020/08/26</span>

This new mycanid is named Breberil and informs that we're almost at Neverlight Grove! Woot Woot! We made it!

Breberil thanks us for bringing Stoop here and invites us to meet Sovereign Phylo. We are led through fields of mushrooms and see some of those big beats Prince Darendill was transformed into (I forget what they're called). These are motionless like the drow we saw so presumably are more "sentinels".

We reach what seems like the entrance and I notice that everything I can see is alive. Almost everything is a mushroom or some other kind of fungus, but still alive. We walk up a slope tand have a good vantage to view the area. There is a tall (100~200ft) tower, a 'forest' of mushrooms,and a valley leading to the forest, which is where we go. We learn that mycanids are normally nomadic but they have found a good home here. THey have been ruled/governed/led by sovereign Phylo for a while but recently sovereign Basidia arrived with another group.

We arrive at a group of mycanids standing around a key figure at the centre. They all stand completely still and silent since they communicate... sporally? so it is eerily quiet.

Berebril tells us to approach the the group to meet to two sovereigns. They "spore" us (can spore be used as a verb?) and we begin to hear their voices in our heads. Soveriegn Phylo invites us to "join in the celebration" and Zackham starts playing a tune. We feel various emotions pass through us: joy, confusion, and others. I suppose we are feeling what the mycanids around us are feeling? From the confusion I conclude that they don't get many troubadours spontaneously breaking into song. 

After Zackham finishes Phylo tells us that we have free access to all of the lower plateau but asks that we don't go to the upper levels. He thanks us for bringing Stoop but is unable to help us get back to the surface.

We hear another voice tell us that they don't know how to get to the surface either but they offer to guide us around the grove. This is sovereign Basidia. We feel a sense of caution, urgency, and uncertainty.

Basidia dishes out the mycanid gossip. She tells us that sovereign Phylo has invited people in like we were but they haven't been seen since. Sovereign Phylo is talking up some "Great Seeder" that is an unknown entity to Basidia and it worries her. Basidia thinks Phylo has fallen victom to some disease or malicious spore. Their relationship was better in the past but she has been gradually sidestepped in governing and Phylo is changing the way things are done in a disturbing fashion. I don't really get it all, but Basidia seems legit and trustworthy so we've agreed to help her out. She wants us to find out what's going on with Phylo. 

Basidia brings us to the "Circle of Hunters" and introduces us to Loobamud, the leader of the circle. He asks us to help with the extermination of a couple creatures that have been causing problems. The hunters don't kill things, they just harvest corpses, which is why they need out help. There is a swamp monster and a cave monster. The swamp monster is some kind of plant-beast and is a more immediate threat because of it's proximity to the grove. The cave monster is some kind of giant worm thing.

I ask Basidia if they have any equipment we might be able to use to help us and she brings a bunch of 'junk' with a few nice trinkets mixed in. What's really nice though, is she has everything I need to resummon Xaphan! There are also some scrolls and a couple gourds with healing potion in them.