

# Entry 25 - It's ghoul to meet you
<span class="journaldate">2020/12/16</span>
  
As the battle is coming to an end we see a ghoul about to jump at us from the plateay above get impaled by a spear. Four people in full plate armour and helmets come into few shortly after. They were fighting ghouls above while we were battling them below.

These four identify themselves as "the Grey Knights". They come from the Fog Fjord which is one ro two hours away. They go on to contiue hunting ghouls but tell us we would be welcome in their settlement and they'll be back there shortly. We decided we might as well check out the settlement and the Grey Knights' leader says mention them to the guards to ensure safe entry. He also tells us not to be surprised by what we see there and assures us it's ok. This is intriguing and a little concerning but we figure we'll take him at his word that's ok and I at least, am looking forward to the surprise. What could it be? Are they cat people? Lizard people? Do they keep giant spiders as pets? Does the settlement float in the air? I enjoy the distraction from thinking about the possible end of the world at the hands of a demon queen.

We walk for about 40 minutes without incident until we reach an area that is very cold that has crumbled rock strewn about. We see a large gash in the tunnel wall and hear a powerful wind inside it but can't see antyhing but darkness at first. After peering into the darkness for a few moments our eyes start to adjust and we can see a faintly glowing platform several hundred feet away and below us. Near one edge of the platform we see what looks like a settlement and on the opposite edge a series of jagged stalactites and stalagmites.

Suddenly, Iankul notices a swarm of fleshy giant bat-like creatues swoop towards us and yells for us to duck just in time to avoid...whatever would have happened if they flew right into us. Close call!

We descend through the gash to get to the settlement. As we approach the settlement we see that there is a large makeshift wall with a walkway inside the wall where people are prtrolling. We call out to the guards and tell them the Grey Knights invited us and we are warmly welcomed in.

Dezo asks about an inn and we get directions to the "Cat's Claw". As we walk through the town we are somewhat shocked by how much it looks like a surface town, although everything is built from "mushroom wood" instead of typical surface wood.

We see some workers chopping down a large 'tree', some fences with with floating brains with tentacles and beaks. Some of them fall the the groud and dig around in the mud, creating a floating sphere of dirt and mud that I struggle to determine is cute or gross. There are close to ten of these creatures and they seem to be tethered like livestock. I mentally name them "bird brains" just so I have something to call them. Dezo goes over for a closer inspection. He tells us that they have no eyes, their tentacles are barbed and venemous, and they seem intelligent. Is this what the Grey Knights tried to prepare us for? If so, they have a low threshhold for weird.

We arrive at the Cat's Claw and start talking with the innkeeper. He is also from the surface but has been here for many years. He is talkative and friendly. While his character seems top knotch, his appearance could use some work. He is thin and gaunt, missing some teeth, adn generally unkept. Having been in the underdark for many years though, I'll reserve any judgement on his appearance.

As we talk with the inkeep, Galdry, further we start to learn some interesting things about the settlement. People seem to just wake up one the shore near the settlement which is how it got started and then grew. It's unknown how/why people wake up on the shore and no one ever remembers how they got here.

There used to be more Grey Knights but the others are missing (that's odd...) and there are only four right now.

The bird brains are called grel. I prefer bird brains but I suppose to make myself better understood I just call them grel from now on. Also, they eat them.

The "founder" is "in charge" of the Fog Fjord but he keeps to himself. Dezo asks about speaking with him but Galdry says "at this hour it's not a good idea". This is also a bit odd.

Now that I think of it, maybe the knights were preparing us for the fact that this town is apparently magically populated by people with no memories? Again, not *that* weird.

After our chat we decide to get some grel stew. The bowls it's served in, like everything in the settlement, is a hodgepodge of practicle items. They don't match, but they function well. The stewa warms us up and is comforting after our long cold and dark marching.

Verril, Zackham, and I all try a grel bitters. As Galdry brings them out we three all down them in one go before he has a chance to tell us it's meant to be sipped. My tongue and cheeks have a brief moment of searing pain before the numbness sets in. We three can't talk properly anymore. I suppose this is due to the venom in the grel tentacles - the main component of grel bitters.

After this hilarity, we a couple of rooms. A suite for the 6 of us adventurers and a room next door for the mycanids. We also do some more proper introductions of the group, including Xaphan. Galdry isn't too pleased about Xaphan but accepts that I take responsibility for this actions. In hind sight, I probably should have left Xapahan out of the introductions and kept him invisible. Oh well.

We head up to our rooms to get some rest. I do a bit of training with Xaphan and he seems to take to it a bit more this time. We have worked out the kinks of how to coordinate his vision when he's sitting on my shoulders and I'm walking around. I can even use his vision to aim my spells, which is super useful! Unfortunately though, it takes a fair amount of concentration to see through his eyes and still control my body so for some spells I have to come entirely back to myself before casting.

I am still troubled by our experience in Neverlight Grove and something doesn't feel right inside of me. Hopefully it will pass with time.

After our pre-sleep rituals we all lie down *in beds!* and go to sleep. We end up having a shared dream when we feel like we're falling, almost like vertigo, and can hear screaches and voices calling out, I couldn't make out most of the voices, something about "free us"... maybe. We all wake up together and feel terrible. I feel fatigues and lethargic, physically and mentally. 

There is a scream outside and the sound of running on the roof. I send Xaphan out to have a look. Ghouls seem to be attacking the setttlement. There is also a dense fog outside that greatly reduces vision. There is a bell being rung at irregular intervals somewhere nearby. It seems the Grey Knights are not back yet so we decided to help out. As we gear-up and go downstairs we see Galdry talking to someone and we ask them what's going on.

Galdry tells us that when he said "people wake up here" wasn't quite accurate. The new people have to do with when this fog rolls in. As he's talking I notice he looks different. He was always gaunt but now it is much more pronounced and he seems almost stretched out. Through some discussion we discover several important pieces of information:

+ everyone in Fog Fjord was once a rampaging ghoul
+ the fog reverts them to a mindless rampaging state
+ the fog doesn't seem to be able to penetrate inside if the doors and windows are closed
+ we can save the ghouls by tying them up - they'll become "normal" once the fog leaves

We decide to help the town. Galdry asks us to investigate the livestock and/or the workforce and help anyone conscious get holed up somewhere safe.

As we leave a small amount of fog get inside and it immediately affects Galdry. He suddenly becomes even more gaunt and desicated, so we quickly close the door behind us.

We aren't sure if the fog will have any effect on us so Dezo casts a wind spell that creates a vortex aroud him that dispereses the fog and we all enter it. Unfortunately, we can't hear anything while in this vortex but we head towards where the bell sound was coming from since the fog seems to be coming from that direction. We find a small 5' x 5' platform and a mangled, decayed, and desicated human missing its lower jaw and tied to a pillar. A rope is tied to one hand and the bell. The arm is spasming, causing the bell to ring. This seems to be a crude alarm system for the fog.

Verril leaves Dezo's protective wind to see if he can see or hear anything. He can't see more than a few feet because of the fog but he hears fighting coming from the direction we came from. We all suddenly hear a scream in our minds that is so intense it is physically painful. I don't know what that was about but we don't have time to talk about it right now so we just head back towards the Cat's Claw and the livestock area.

We try going to the livestock keeper's hut, hoping to get their help, thinking that they'll stay sane inside Dezo's wind. However, there is no one in the hut. Next we try the barn but on our way we see several grel corpses with most of their "heads" gone, likely eaten. We check the barn and it seems we are too late. There are no more grel alive, but there are several ghouls that we now have to deal with. The fact that they can be turned into regular "people" means we have to try not to kill them, but that's easy to forget when they're trying to rip your throat out.
