
# Entry 8 - Slavers, beware
<span class="journaldate">2020/06/27</span>
  
I approach the Duargar, who doens't seem to have noticed us. I speak to him and wave my hand in front of him but he still doens't notice me. Not a great sign. As I get right next to him and he still doesn't see me I decide to poke him in the shoulder to get his attention. He gaze shifts to me immediately and he looks me straight in the eye, grabs my wrist and starts yelling in my face in a language I don't understand.  

His breathe reeks of death and decay. his face is heavily scarred and he is mising an eye. I just stare back as he yells and this seems to upset him because he then grabs my collar and pulls me closer and starts yelling again. I try to get out of his grip but he's much stronger than me. This was a really dumb idea. I should have just use Mage Hand from a distance to get his attention. Typically Vernon.

Verril comes to help me get away from the Duargar has a really good grip on me. I manage to cast Mage Hand (better late than never) and give his hair a little tug from behind to hopefully distract him. He saw me casting and felt the hand behind him but when he looked he didn't see anything. This spooked him enough to get him to let me go and run off and hide behind a nearby pillar. 

We all start to surround his position but I tell everyone to wait for a minute while I try to calm him down with my telephathy by letting him know we don't mean him harm. This works and he calms down enough for Dezo to bring over Stoop to give him some spores. Now that communication is possible, Verril asks him who he, what he's doing here, etc. 

The Duargar is all that's left of a slave catching mission and there is only one slave left. He's been eating to slaves to stay alive. The remaining slave was traded for with some Drow, but no more is known about him. This doesn't sit well with us so Verril get's a tour of the camp while the rest of us have a telepathic conversation via Stoop. We decide to try to capture him, but if that's not possible, kill him, and then free the prisoner.  

We decide to have everyone get close to him and then I'll cast Command to make him lie down so we can easily jump on him and tie him up. My spells works (surprisingly...) and Verril jumps on him to tie him up. The Duargar struggles like crazy so I jump in there and help. Together we get him securely tied up. While that was going on, Gilberto was picking the lock to free the prisoner. The prisoner is Iankul, a tall, frail looking, male, elf.  

With the prisoner freed and the salver in the cage, we searched the 'camp' and found a decent amount of stuff. LOTS of money, a light blue bubbling potion, fancy old looking scrolls that we can't read, and long thin sword in a silver scabbard with a bird of prey hilt. We also find two of those smoke-bomb things the slaver threw into the wagon/cage. We'll have to investigate the value of these items, but they are interesting!  

The Duargar is securely tied up and it's been a long stretch of excitement and exersion so we decide to have a rest before interogating the prisoner and deciding what to do with him. My vote is to leave him tied up and throw him into the sand in the opposite direction of where we want to go in order to distract some of those damn beetles. That's pretty cold and heartless, but he's a slaver who's been eating his prisoners, so I don't feel bad about it, at all.  

Verril takes first watch and I agree to take second. I woke up for my watch thinking how nice it was that we didn't need to worry about anyone killing us in our sleep anymore...

Shortly after my watch begins the Duargar started laughing hysterically and continued for about a minute and then abruptly stopped. I went over to the cage to see what's going on and he's just rocking back and forth while grunting/growling. Once he notices me at the door he violently tries to escape his bonds and get to me. While this was happening, Verril had supposedly woken up possesed and attacked Neznar and Zackham. Verril can be a bit of a dummy but there's no way he'd do this in his right mind.   

I yell to wake everyone up and cast Command on Verril to make him lie down. It works (wow! two in a row!) and I jump on him to try to restrain him. Unsurprisingly, I'm unable to overpower him. Luckily, I've slowed him down enough to give others time to come help me.  When Iankul woke up, presumably very surprised and confused, he healed Zahkam so regained conciousness and cast a lauhter spell on Verril which allowed me to keep him constrained until the golbins and Gilberto could come help me try to tie him up.  

I somehow noticed during the scuffle that Iankul chose to heal Zakham furhter, but left Neznar bleeding and unconscious on the ground. Was this deliberate or did he just not see Neznar? If I'm being honest, I can't blame Iankul if he chose to just let Neznar die. After all, he was captured by the Drow and then sold to the Duargar and was waiting to be eaten, so a little grudge against Drow is perfectly understandable. How long did it take us to stop constantly thinking Neznar was trying to trick or kill us?  

We finally get Verril securely tied up but the whole time we were doing that the Duargar was trying to escape. He had gotten free of his bonds and had been smashing himself against the door with seemingly super-duargar strength. He managed to break the door but as he came out Dezo cast a paralyzing spell on him and he just fell to the ground. We unanimously decided (did we even say anything or did we just all move together?) that the Duargar should just be killed right away before he could cause anymore trouble. So we quickly slaughtered him and then went back to deal with Verril, who was still struggly furiously against his ropes.

<!-- NOTE: Verril gave the Duargar some rations during his watch because the Duargar was complaining of hunger. I didn't include this because Vernon doens't know about it at this point -->
