
# Entry 11 - Tentacles are gross
<span class="journaldate">2020/08/03</span>
  
As we regain our bearings and composure after the earthquake, we hear more joyous noises: large wings flapping in the distance accompanied by some kind of whooping or hooting sound.

We decided to send my familiar ahead to scout since he can fly and be invisible, I thought he'd be fairly safe. I was wrong. It isn't long before I lose my connection with him, which means he's been killed. Luckily, he's not *really* dead, he just dissapears and goes... *somewhere* to wait to be summoned again. That doesn't help us in our current situation though. I report to the group that my familiar has almost definitely been killed and by something he didn't see coming. We prepare for a battle and head out in the direction of my last contact with Xaphan.

When we get to the area of Xaphan's death we hear the whoot/hoot sound again but it's coming form above us. We look up and see a gross tentacle-thing on the ceiling. Dezo throws his flame at it as it tried to descend onto SpiderBait. A battle ensues with three of these spikey-tentacled grossies and we come out victorious but Iankul is pretty hurt. He had one all over him for a bit trying to eat him. It sounds like there are more in the distance but they don't seem to move around all that much so we take a moment to patch up Iankul before setting off very carefully. 

It's too bad caution doesn't let you avoid earthquakes. There is another one and we get bounced around pretty hard again. This further opens up the moving water we heard and we discover an underground river. Verril investigates it for bathing purposes and takes a bath while we watch with both marvel trepidation. At least he tied a rope to himself to make sure he doesn't drown or get swept away. I guess he's learning. Miraculously, nothing realy happens during his bath and once he's done we decide to cross the river. 

The river is about 10 feet across, which most people can handle jumping but with my track record I decide to ride on Verril's back while he jumps. This is after he literally throws the goblins and halfling across, to my heartfelt amusement.

After crossing we climb up a crevice/shaft that leads to a tunnel and reach a nice little cave pocket that has a cozy feel to it so we decide to take a nice break and recover from our recent ordeals. I take this time to investigate the cold blue crystal I got from Boopido. Turns out it's the tooth of a large powerful beast that was killed long ago. It has magical properties that let me get the most out of some of my spells and can act as a focus for my spells. Giant beast tooth is definitely cooler than my wand.  

Before go to sleep the goblins let us know that they are going to be leaving us soon. We attract a bit too much danger for their liking. I said earlier that maybe Verril is learning, but dang he needs to work on his people skills. He says some weird stuff about the goblins being sketchy but he didn't bother being secret about it so the goblins heard it all and things got really awkward for a bit. I don't think any feelings were hurt though, they *have* been travelling with Verril for a while.

After our rest we head out towards a reddish light further down the tunnel. As we go we start to see familiar underdark type flora that are bioluminescent (the source of the red glow). We come to a fork in the path, unsure which way to go.
