
# Entry 4 - Murder, Mimic, and spiders... oh my
<span class="journaldate">2020/03/21</span>

> **NOTE FROM WILLY (aka, not Vernon or the historian who collected this priceless manuscript and compiled it into a book)**  
> **_I guess I was tired because I seem to have missed a conversation with Fargas about how he's searching for treasure and would like us to help him. It comes up later that this conversation happened but I didn't record it... oops. My only guess is that it happened before we went to bed, I don't know when else we had the time._**

It is cold and windy in out '*shelter*' so it's not a very comfortable sleep, but we all do manage to get fall asleep. We agree to take watch in pairs in the hope of catching/stopping/preventing more nocturnal murders. Verril and Dezo take the first watch, with Zahkam and myself taking the second.

It happens again - I very suddenly fall asleep while on watch, even though I felt wide awake a moment earlier. It seems Zahkam succumbed as well.

As I fall asleep I hear the clack of bones on stone. I open my eyes and I'm on my back and see a huge black spider with a human like front with 8 balck eyes for a face. It's huge, roughly 8 or 9 times my size. As she approaches me I try to move but can't. She says "*On the path of silk someone has to sink. If they come back up, your blood I will dink"*. She then sinks her mandibles into my chest and I wake up with a start.

My patron has visited my dreams again with another order to kill. I'm guessing it manifested as a giant spider in light on our current situation... that's nice, bringing back the memory of almost dying yesterday.

Shortly after I awake, everyone else wakes up too, because Fargas is screaming. I sit up and see Neznar staring out of the cave. Dorn's dismembered body is hanging, almost floating in the cave entrance. He seems to have been ritualistically murdered like Vawyn. He is suspended by his intenstiines. Folk are quite shaken up. Fargas is frantic, Boopido looks terrified (as usual), and Gilberto looks like he might be sick. Verril, Dezo, and I decide to investigate the scene.

The way the corpse is suspended it would be impossible for one person to do on their own. So magic was likely involved. There is a pool of blood where Dorn was sleeping, so he was killed, or at least wounded, before being brought to the entrance for the ritual. So likely someon strong, as well as magical. Great.

We find that Gilberto's loot bag has been rumaged through and the Bead of Force is missing and a kit of nails and such has been gone through. The money is all still there though.

We are unable to find any clues that might indicate who or what did this.

I sit everyone down and tell them about my dream. They are less than thrilled and the suspicion that I'm the killer (whether knowingly or not) increases. There isn't much else to do so we see the Dorn's body (burial at sea style, but in the sea of webs) and finish our rest before moving on.

---

As we travel, following Yuk Yuk and Spider Bait, we come across big spider-like insects with orange/black shells pulling a wagon. The wagon is being driven by Durgen, the dwarves of the under dark. Yuk Yuk says they are salvers and that they were enslaved themselves by mindflayers for centuries and are about as nice as Drow. We'd prefer not to meet them. They are still ~200ft in the away so Yuk Yuk and Spider Bait lead us past/around them without incident.

We continue on and Yuk Yuk spots an ornate chest in the webs off the main path. He wants to check it out but I suggest testing it from afar first. I get close enough to cast *Mage Hand*  and try to open it. It's not a chest, it's a Mimic. Not. Good. I try to sneak away back to the group so we can escape without incident but it notices me. It is *very* fast. It gets hit with a few crossbow bolts before it reaches me but they don't slow it down. As it reaches me I cast *Burning Hands* and definitely hurt it, but not nearly enough. I also accidentally destroy the web we're on and we fall about 20 feet to a web below. The Mimic recovers first and latches on to my leg. Its bite burns like acid. I respond with more fire but in my pain am unable to properly direct the flames and can't finish it off. Of course, I do manage to burn more of the web and we fall another 20 feet or so. It is so fast, it again recovers almost immediately and bites my legs again. I'm on my last legs \**chuckle*\*. 

Verril tries to come down to help me but falls poorly and lands on the level below. Dezo casts some healing magic on me so I can possibly survivive one more bite. It is peppered with more bolts but they don't stop it. The Mimic continues to try to consume me and I lost consciousness.

I don't think a lot of time passed before I was being revived by Dezo, with the destroyed '*body*' of the Mimic on the web beside me.

We hear some missing in the distance and Yuk Yuk wants to leave. First, Dezo examines the Mimic's corpse and find a few acid marked gold pieces and a small lock box - eaten away by acid but still intact.

As we are about the leave we hear the hisses much closer and realise there aer 5 spiders closing in on us.

Zahkam tries to jump down but falls akwardly. Yuk Yuk yells that we should run because we can't win this fight. I agree, since I'm barely hanging on. Unfortunately, we are spread between several levels of webs. Verril throws a rope down for Zahkam and Zahkam throws it down to Dezo so we can all climb back to the original web and escape.

