
# Entry 20 - Yestebrod
<span class="journaldate">2020/10/28</span>

The battle with Yestebrod, the gross floating skin ball, was long and difficult. Several 'sentries' came to life from the ground, the mounds we had seen. One of the sentries was Fargas. Somehow we had completely forgotten about him and didn't notice he had wandered off (or maybe taken?) and turned into a sentry. It was clear that we were also to be made into sentries if we lost, so we didn't hold back. When fungus-Fargas attacked Dezo didn't hesitate. He was in lizard form at this point and bit Fargas's half-rotten body in half.

It was a hard fought battle, but I did not perform admirably. I lost consciousness twice. Early on the battle I charged two *spore pod* things as they approached our group, thinking I could defeat them before they attacked. I did manage to destroy them both but in so doing I caused them to literally explode... in my face. Luckily, I had Xaphan hang back so he wasn't hurt by my idiocy. Later, Yestebrod cast some kind of fear spell that gripped me with sheer terror. I panicked and tried to run, leaving myself open to a brutal attack. However, despite my feable efforts we did manage to win the battle.

With yestebrod's death the screams of agony of all the corpses subsided to mere graons. There were still many half-rotted barely "alive" fungus zombies so I went around dispatching them to end their suffering and prevent them from being sent against us in the future. As I go I find old discarded remnans of armour and requipemnt. While I'm doing this Verril tries throwing some bodies into the big hole in the ground around which we were fighting Yestebrod. It's a big bottomless-looking hole. Verril cast a light spell on one of the bodies to see what it does but the glowing body seemed to fall through/into something and couldn't be seen anymore. Iankul suggests I send Xaphan down but I decline - Xaphan isn't expendable. Verril then searches the area around where Fargas came out and finds a few nice potions that might come in handy.

Just as we are starting to think about what to do next we hear something approaching. A group of feminine-looking mycanids come through the fungal forest. It appears to be a procession of celebration. They take Yestebrod's body and carry it away. Then they seem to invite us to do... something, with outstretched arms. We just stand still dumbfounded and unsure of what is going on so they pair off amonst themselves. We then hear an unfamiliar language in our minds that is chanting some kind of poem. We all share a vision of being in a purple/fuschia room. It seems circular but looking around it is confusing and disorienting. We look down and see a feminine creature floating. It looks similar to the feminine mycanids but is three times as tall. The others are tending to it somehow. They seem to be weaving matter into existence and attaching it to the big one who is made entirely of fungi.

After this we regain our senses and they return to where they came from. This was very odd, unexpected, and confusing. We are pretty beta up from the battle (especially me...) so we decide to have a rest before going off to confront sovereign Phylo, who must think us dead at this point.