
# Entry 23 - Prepare for war
<span class="journaldate">2020/11/25</span>
  
Basidia knows of a safe place we can go so she leads us waya. As we go there are no more bioluminescent mushrooms or soft ground. We transition to pitch black and stone. THe tunnel gradually narrows until have to crouch and are brushing against the walls. We get to a ledge and descend a collection of small cliffs. Eventually, we arrive at a place Basidia considers safe and we begin to explain what happened to us. Verril leads the explanation to Basidia. Basidia is confused and curious. Verril says Yestebrod was the great seeder but he called it a "he" and Basidia says Phylo called the great seeder "she". Silly Verril.

Dezo appologizes for attaching Rashoroo and Vasidia says we should appologize to Rasharoo directly.

I try explaining about the weird vision we had of the purple room but I can't remember enough details for it to make sense to her. Basidia expresses fear and worry. We see that this is working so we decide to try melding with them in order to share our memories and hopefully she'll be able to make sense of what we saw. We should be well rested before attempting to meld so we try to rest. I curl up in the corner with Xaphan and sleep **_hard_**. I got knocked out several times in these fights. More than once by having things explode in my face. I am exhausted and despite what's going on I have no trouble falling into a deep sleep right away.

As I'm sleeping I awak to a building laugh that reaches a full on cackle. My patron is laughing at me for killing myself. He says it bought me some time but I still have to kill one of these people soon. *???What???* Something seems off with my patron. Something more odd than usual, but I can't put my finger on it. This is troubling but not my top concern at the moment.

I startle awake following this disturbing interaction with my patron. There is a big light, like the palm of a giant hand made of light that covers me and squahses me down. I feel hot and cold like I've got the flu. Once that's done (whatever it is) I pass out almost immediately and finish sleeping.

---

We all meld with the mycanids. It's an odd experience. They all seem to glow faintly and a musty smell emanates from them and burns my nostrils a little. I briefly fall into a state of euphoria and feel a connection to nature unlike anything else I've ever experienced. As that passes I feel what the mycanids have been feeling recently with whole Phylo situation and the I see all of our memories from the garden of welcome. We eventually go through everyone's recent memories and thoughts and gain a better understanding of Vasidia, Rasharoo, and Lubamud. I feel like a real connection has been made between my party and the mycanids, as well as between us members of the party. We saw parts of each other that we wouldn't normally share but since everyone was laid bare we're still on equal footing and it doesn't make me feel uncomfortable knowing they've seen my true thoughts and feelings, and they feel likewise.

The sharing of thoughts and memories doesn't happen in a linear fashion, it kind of all happens at once, but also slowly. It's as if we are given all the information at once and then slowly decipher it all at the same time (at least for me). As the melding concludes with everyone having internally sorted and decipherd the massive amount of information we just ingested, panick spreads aming the mycanids.

Vasidia informs us that the Great Seeder is actually the Lady of Decay, Zigmoy. Rasharoo says she is a demon queen from a different plane. They also inform us that Ystrabrod was once a mycanid. That took a second to sink in: that floating gross ball of eyes used to be a mycanid?!?! They tell us that Zigmoy may want to join with the "lifeblood of everyting" (I didn't catch the name) at "Araumycos" (spelling?) to corrupt the lifeblood and take it over in order to conquer the world. This is *very* bad news.

Vasidia doesn't think we'll be able to do anything about Zigmoy on our own, we need allies either in the underdark or from the surface. THe demon queen seems to be amassing an army so we need to do likewise. I asked Vasidia how much time we have before the "invasion" but she doesn't know.

Rasharoo tells us there are "stout softers" nearby that they think have a way to the surface. We suppose that the stout softers are durgar but it's hard to tell from the mycanid's description and they don't understand our attempts to differentiate the various kinds of "softers". Either way, Rasharoo has had dealing with them without incident in the past and gives us a necklace with an anvil and flame medalion that may help us (I'm not sure how, hopefully someone else was paying closer attention than I was). 

Vasidia doesn't seem hopeful about our situation but after some discussion it is decided that Vasidia and the mycanids will go to Aramikos (spelling?) and set up a base camp to wait for us to return with an army. Rasharoo will send a couple of guides with us to help us find the "stout softers". We say our goodbyes (including a heartwarming show of affection from Dezo for Stoop) and we get ready set off to find an army with our two mycanid guides.

