
# Entry 12 - Did you know mushrooms can scream?
<span class="journaldate">2020/08/10</span>

By the time we get to the fork the ground has changed a bit. There is soft stone with dirt and some small plants and mushrooms - the goblins say we are in the "upper-underdark". We continue walking and until we get a fork with three paths. Yuk-Yuk seems to think he and Spiderbait have been here before. 

I get a sense of unbridled joy and excitement creepimg up and becoming overwhelming for a brief moment. I hear in my mind (along with the rest of the group) "*We're near, I can feel it*". It's Stoop, letting us know we're getting close and that he wants to take the path to the right. He wants to find a grove so he can communicate with the mycanids and find out how to get to Neverlight Grove. We have no reason to go any other way so we take the path Stoop suggested.

As we walk we hear the chitering of a bat (bat-ish?) swarm above us. We didn't think they were a risk but they suddenly swooped down and attacked those in the front. Verril and Dezo got the worst of it and the creatures were easily scared off, or maybe they just had their fill of fresh flesh and were done with us. They disperse and we hurry along the natural slope we've been following.

We end up in a cave witjh glowing purple stone in them and other colours coming from.... where did all those colours come from? Plants? Stones? I don't remember, but it was colourful.

We all feel euphoric again ans Stoop excitedly tells us "*this is it!*". Dezo takes out Stoop and walks around the cave, Zacham and I follow him while Verril investigates a skull on the ground. We suddenly hear a sucking sound and then a deep silence followed by an ear splitting scream released some of the mushrooms. Stoop doesn't like the sound either and says he's never heard it before. Dezo uses a spell to dump a 5-foot cube of dirt onto the screaming mushrooms, twice. This muffles the sound and we continue on. There is another screaming muchroom and Dezo covers it like th last one but we also start to hear a screeching from a beast or group of beasts nearby.

We are attacked by three beaked worms with 4 spiked tentacles coming out of their "faces". One got right in my face by Zackham sent it running with a spell, giving me some space to cast my own spells. In the darkness (that's my excuse anyway...) I have trouble hitting anything. I send streaks of energy glying all over the place but most them miss, by a lot. Story of my life. I'd be long dead if I had to fight on my own.

No thanks to me, we win the battle and everyone is alive but Verril and Spiderbait are pretty hurt. Verril had almost died but Zackham used the same spell he saved me with and sent it running, which gave Verril and opportunity to finish it off. Unfortunately, Verril was in such a rage that he charged at the last one and finished it off too, despite his wounds, ending the battle. That really make me feel useless. We don't hear anymore of the worms and the mushrooms are silent so we get a sense of security (silly us).

Stoop gets excited again and we follow Dezo as he caries Stoop to the center of the cave and Stoop has us set him down. Dezo "plants" him in a small hole and the unbridled joy we're experiencing through Stoop intensifies and fills us to the brim with euphoria. Stoop tells is he feels great and that he "can feel everyone".