
# Entry 21 - Vernon the saviour
<span class="journaldate">2020/11/15</span>
  
As we settle down to rest Dezo spots something shiny and metalic which stands out against the mostly rusted metal of the corpses and their equipment. We are warry of surprises so Dezo uses a spell to unearth it. I then try grabbing it with Mage Hand, from a safe distance -- can't be too careful. There is a hand holding a fancy looking dagger. I lift the arm as high as I can so that I can shoot it free with an Eldritch Blast. The hand is attached to the arm of a humanoid body with no head. The clothes are tattered and appear to be empty but the clothes have the shape of containing a body. My spell easily blows the arm apart and I bring the dagger and attached hand closer. Seems there was not need for all the care I took to avoid a surprise, but I will remain vigilant! You never know when a dead hand is really a... something bad. The hand and bit of arm seem to be petrified -- they look fleshy but have the consistency of chalk -- and I easily break the hand off of the dagger. The dagger blade is jagged and undulating and gives off a faint glow. It's pretty gnarly and cool. We will need to investigate it later, as it obviously has some special properties. I give it to Gilberto since he is the main dagger wielder of the group. While I'd love to carry a wicked dagger like that, it won't do us much good in a fight for me to be casting spells from a distance while holding a dagger. Its awesomeness won't help my aim.

As I'm examining the dagger Verril checks out the body. It turns out the clothes were empty but they help the shape of a body. Verril gives me the cloak thinking it might have magical properties. I'll try to remember to investigate it later. As we complete this transaction we start to hear a sound like creaking wood. The mounds around us start to increase the sounds of pain their exuding.

Mycanids with Sovereign Phylo come into the Garden of Welcome! Two huge ones and about ten regular sized ones. We see them coming from a distance but don't have time to get away undetected. I think fast and cast Mask of Many Faces to disguise myself as a dead sentry (a dead undead?) and lie down trying to blend into the background.

Verril tries to lie his way out of the situation but they just think he is crazy and mostly ignore his words. Everyone but me is taken. Some of the others tried to feign sleep (I think Dexo might have actually been asleep) but it didn't help them. 

This is **_bad_**! I am barely hanging on after that battle with Yestebrod and now my entire party has been taken captive. There is absolutely no way I can fight right now. One hit from a two foot mycanid would likely do me in. I don't have any idea how I'm going to free them but I figure my best bet is to follow them and keep out of sight.

I have Xaphan follow them from a safe distance while invisible and I follow him from further back. I also change my appearance again, to that of a regular mycanid. I know from talking to Soveriegn Basidia that as long as I don't get close enough to another Mycanid for them to talk to me they shouldn't be able to detect that I'm a fake.

They are taking my friends to the giant mushroom tower we've been able to see in the distance but couldn't approach. As we approach the tower I can see that it is truly massive. It is covered in other mushrooms sprouting out all along its height. The path winds near a river that leads to the tower, but as we get closer I realize it's not a river of water, it's too thick and bubbly. I don't know what it is and I'm fine not ever finding out.

The path is walled with earth and the walls are covered in mounds like we saw in the Garden of Welcome. I can only assume that every mound is body ready to rise up as a sentry. I need to be very careful. I wonder how old some of them are? They can't be amassing sentries terribly quickly so some of these might be really old. Some of the mounds are moving, seemingly in pain. This is not a pleasant stroll, it is **_intense_**. I'm not used to have so many lives depend on just me. I'm used to my decisions only having major consequences for me and my enemies.

Ahead of Phylo a mound rips open and we hear a scream of pain as dark liquid burts out and a drow falls to the ground, limp for a moment before unnaturally rising and joining Phylo. We continue on, Phylo and his posse carrying my friends, Xaphan back a ~100ft and me another ~100ft back from him, just a normal mycanid walking towards the tower. As we go the sound of constant moans of agony build and continue to build until nothing else can be heard. It then dies down again, then builds again. This cycle is not pleasant in the least. It's really grating on my nerves but I focus on the task of saving my friends and do my best to ignore it.

The ground starts to slope up as we get closer to the tower and thick purple smog sits around the base of the tower. There are puddles of viscous purple liquid sitting stagnant scattered on the path. I do my best to avoid them while still looking natural while I walk. Xaphan told me what was coming before I rounded the bend but it didn't prepare me. He said it looked like they were having some kind of party, and he was right, but it was still a shock to witness the masses of *things* at the base of the tower. There were scores of deformed humanoid bodies. Draw, gnomes, durgar, knolls, mycanids, even some of those crab/locust things we saw earlier when Stoop was talking to that really tall mycanid. They were all deformed in some way: melted face, rotting/rotted sections, missing limbs, etc. The worst part was the way they were "dancing". They moved like their body was taken over by something that wasn't used to it yet.

Some of the creatures notice Phylo adn seem to laugh to each other about how successful he is at bringing so many people to the party. One duargar laughs so hard at this that he pukes. They seem completely insance. The stress of the situation starts to get to me and I feel weird. I almost have to supress a laugh even though I definitely don't find anything funny. I definitely don't feel right but I can't tell if it's just the prolonged stress, the effects of my injuries from the previous battle, or if I'm actually going a little crazy.

Phylo speaks and it snaps my attention back to the current situation. He says something like "I wanted to make an offer to the Queen but it did not work out. So this one will have to wait." The mycanids carrying my friends then put them into the walls, each in their own mounds. They are bound and helpless so the mycanids have no trouble depositing them like seeds into ready dug plots. Phylo and his posse then move off to join the revelry.

Now is my chance! I can't wait too long or my friends will become sentries or die or I don't know what. I can't let myself be noticed though, or else I'll get put into my own mound and we'll all our fates will be sealed.

I take a potion -- in case we need to make a run for it I don't want to pas out from a single stray hit -- and approach the wall of friends. There are hundreds of the mycanids and humanoid grotesques scattered around the area and the closest are ~50ft away. They are really into their dancing and I look like a mycanid so I don't draw any attention just being here standing next to a mound, especilly since anyone on the path is standing next to *a* mound. 

As I get ready to free the first of my party I send telepathic thoughts of calm. Once the message seems to be received I start excavating them - Dezo is the first. My plan is to excavate the first and have them act calm and like a sentry as we continue to excavate the rest and then act like sentries as we walk away -- hopefully without any fighting.

Dezo is bound in vines and has one down his throat. I cut the vines and he falls out of the mound which yanked the mouth vine out causing him to scream (oops! Sorry Dezo!). The scream goes unnoticed, likely because of the ambient screaming that builds and subsides, and the dancing and laughing of the celebration going on. Lesson learned though, do the mouht vine first and do it slowly. We manage to get everyone out without further incidence but Zackham and Gilberto are unconcious so they need to be carried. 

With everyone out we start walking/dancing our way back the way we came. Dancing to blend in with the crazies around us. We go in two groups, carrying the unconcious ones between two concious so it looks like they're jovially grasping shoulders as they dance (have you seen the theatre play "Weekend at Bernie's"? It was kind of like that). The party is still going full swing and no one seems to notice. We need to get back to Sovereign Basidia and heal up. Thankfully we have Xaphan scouting ahead for us as we go.

