
# Entry 24 - Screeches are never good
<span class="journaldate">2020/12/02</span>
  
I was about to start walking when Iankul brings up our dream and Zigmoy again. Verril starts talking about a pre-emptive strike at the grove (that we just *barely* managed to escape from...really Verril?)

Verril then starts asking Vasidia about the demon spores that infected so many of the mycanids and if there is a way to detect them. Vasidia informs us that any mycanid can detect them and our guides are at our disposal as long as we need them so we'll be able to detect them if we need to.

Since talk have re-opened and our departure temporarily on hold, Vasidia decides to ask Dezo to try a special type of spore "technique" to establish long range communication. She chooses him because of his skills with nature-related magics. Vasidia has never tried this before so doesn't know if it will work and it might hurt Dezo but he isn't daunted by a little danger. He agrees to give it a try but almost immediately after whatever Vasidia is doing begins he starts to look very uncomfortable and it seems to intensify until he falls to the ground screeming with blood dripping out of this nose and eyes. It's obvious to everyone, even Gilberto gagging a few paces off, that it did not work. Oh well, Dezo is still alive so not too much harm done.

That display somewhat spoiled the mood for further inquiries so we finally set off for real. Our new guides are Alop and Jolaba (sp?) and they lead the way out of the cave.

For safety's sake I disguise myself as Erugg (sp?) (that creepy old duargar we met before) and have Xaphan ride on my shoulder invisible so I can see through his eyes and gain the benefits of his dark vision.

The melding took a lot out of us, and then the following discissions took a while, and Dezo went through his little mishap, and it's been many hours since we first set out, so it doens't take long for us to tire and need to slow our pace. We have our guides find us a resting spot and huker down a nice rejuvinating respite. Before laying down though, I try to do some training with Xaphan to improve our coordination when I see through his eyes. He doesn't take it seriously though so we don't really make any progress. I don't want to be harsh with him, I want him to want to work with me. I'll have to try again but I think I need to find a motivation for him to improve his focus.

While on watch Iankul saw soemthing but it ran off before he could determine what it was. Other than that we rested without incident and woke up ready to continue our march. After several monotonous hours of stone tunnels we come to a plateau and hear a kind of croaking noise in the distance. It soon turns into a horrific screeching. We then see a group huamoids with elongated limbs and jaws that approach from the plateau. 

*ghouls!*

They aren't very tough but they do a lot of damage if they can get their hands on you, and there are a lot of them.


  