
# Entry 1 - Escape from captivity
<span class="journaldate">2020/01/04</span>

I awoke to the sound of Vawen talking to someone on the other side of the carriage roof that had trapped me in the corner. It took some work, but the man managed to helpe me out of the carriage and removed my shackles. It was a human rogue named Gilberto who had saved us. He is in a party of escaped prisoners. Vawen's leg was broken in the carriage carnage so she needed help getting out of the carriage. Prince Darrendil, a huge creature I've never seen before tried to climb up to help but ended up tipping the carriage over. After dusting myself off, I checked of Dorn, who was a bit shaken from his head blow but otherwise seeme hale. Vawen leg needed to be splinted so I set about making her a splint and attempting to set her leg. Prine Darrendil agreed to carry her. Before leaving we checked the area for useful supplies and we found a chest that contained the prisoners' gear. I found all of my gear except for my gold, my arcane focus, and my fake signet ring. Gilberto grabbed some of the other gear. I got a drow dagger from Gilberto and grabbed a drow cloak off a corpse in case I need to disguise myself later.

I met the rest of the group, Dezo, Verril, Zakham, Neznar, and a gnome I forget the name of.

The group seemed to be in a discussion with something I couldn't see and then I heard it, Stoop, the micanid. This creature/being could speak to us telepathically and the group were on their way to bring it home to Neverlight Grove, somewhere in the Underdark. Neznar, being a drow, was leading them, although he has never been there. 

There has been a lot of fighting between the drow and giant wasps, which have left many of the corpses bloated and we are worried they might become undead so we deided to hurry up an leave. There is waterfall nearby and I suggest refilling our waterskins while we pass it. Gilberto doesn't want to waste time going to get water, he just wants to leave. Neznar tells us there are a few paths we could take. There is a cliff we could climb down but it would be difficult, especially with Vawen's broken leg, and Neznar says there would be many climbs down and up. The other option is longer but easier walking, although will also have dangers. We agreed that we wouldn't leave Vawen behind so we decided on the longer route. Neznar sneeringly said "she's a liability", which I didn't like, but I don't want to make trouble with our guide so I'll leave it for now, as long as he doesn't act on it.

On our way to the waterfall we see what appear to be floating lights. Once we get closer we see they are lanterns. As we get closer still, we begin to notice a foul, garbage-like stench that gets stronger as we move forward. We see a collapsed tower partly submerged in water/muck. The other mention something about sacrifices that they seemed to have avoided, but think this is where the bodies have ended up. We decide against drinking this water. There are balls of light floating in the water/muck but I can't tell what they are. We decide to leave the area and continue on our way.

As we continue we start to notice a fog. I ask Neznar about it but he just says to "keep moving and focus". I ask him if i's dangerous and he says "not if you keep moving and focus"... not very helpful. I started to hear faint whispers coming from nowhere that I can't make out. There appear to be scratch marks on the walls from claws and things are generally very creepy, but we have to keep moving.

I don't know what happened next. Suddenly my head cleared and we weren't in the fog anymore. We seemed to have travelled a fair distance but I'm unsure how much time passed. Most of us don't seem to remember what happened, but something definitely did. Gilberto is bleeding from the head but doens't know why. Dorn said "Fuck you, that's why" so something must have happened between them that only Dorn knows about. Dezo tells Zakham that he forgives him but Zahkam doesn't know what he's being forgiven for. Dezo says "you didn't know what you were doing" so I guess some of us were under some kind of magical effect? Other than a few minor injuries we seem to have escaped mostly unharmed from whatever was in that fog.

As we continue walking we come to a cave in blocking our path. Neznar gives us options again. We can go back 20 minutes to a ladder leadin down, but our current party can't really make that climb. We can try to dig out the cave in and continue on our route, but that would take a lot of time. We can go up to a path/cavern that the cave in seems to have opened up. We decide to go up to the new revealed area and find ourselves on a kind of plateau.

The walls in this area seem to pulsate with an orange glow. There are vein like structures in the rock that the light pulses seem to travel along. There is a large fissure 10~15 feet wide and 20~30 feet high. The area seems safe so we decide to take a long rest here. We post watches, and I'm first.

I feel fine and shouldn't have trouble staying awake but about 1.5 hours into my 2 hour watch a suddenly fall asleep.

My patron came to me in my sleep, and it seems he is the reason I fell asleep. He demanded that I kill either Vawen or the gnome in our party. I really don'y want to kill an innocent person, but if I don't give him one of those souls, he will take mine. Luckily, he didn't give me a deadline, so hopefully I can find out more about this gnome and he'll end up being a pretty terrible person and I won't have to feel bad about killing him. The other option is killing Vawen because of her leg. I don't want to, but if it gets infected or we need to run and she has to be left behind, I might kill her in order save her from the fate of being caught by whatever we're runnin from.

So what I need to do once I wake up is:

+ investigate the gnome, find out if he's a bad guy that I can kill
+ investigate Vawen's leg and find out if she's going to survive 


