
# Entry 5 - Tricksy old goat
<span class="journaldate">2020/04/04</span>

We all got to the same level and run for it. I struggle on the webs *again* \**sigh*\* but the others help me and we manage to get away.

After about 20 minutes of running/riding we approach some lights. We are finally near the edge of the webs.

As we leave the edge of the webs, the goblins tell us they want to come with us. They are having fun with all this action and would like it to continue (I guess they'll a little twisted, but I shouldn't be surprised, given their occupation). They are friendly and helpful so there is no dissagreement and welcome them as set out away from the webs.

As we travel on our way we go through various tunnels and caverns. We come to one large cavern that has a rickety bridge over a deep casm. After that we go through a tunnel and come out of it to the sounds of comotion. There are lanters and an obelisk, similar to the one we saw before. About 60 feet away there is a rest-stop of sorts with tents and stalls with items laid out. Various denizens of the underdark are shopping in the market.

There are 3 tents with 4 stalls selling a wide variety of basic goods. Tools, artwork, musical instruments, and simple weapons. Many of the items are made from a dark purple wood called *zirkwood* that is prevelant in the underdark. Behind one of the tents is an deep-gnome cooking and serving some kind of soup or stew at a camp fire. There are 8 blue/red giant lizards just resting nearby. They don't look friendly but they don't look overly hostile either.

Dezo goes to get a closer look at the lizards but they don't seem to like him and a gnome shooes him away.

Yuk Yuk offers to open to the small lock box so we can see what the Mimic was carrying. We go a bit out of the way to inspect the box. Inside the acid eaten wooden box is a metalic box that Yuk Yuk manages to get open. Inside is a slim metal bracelet with a an inset light blue crystal. It is cool to the touch and almost certainly magical. Dezo decides to spend some time studying the bracelet while the rest of us do some shopping or browsing.

I try to find someone to identify the our small collection of potions while Zahkam looks into buying an instrument.

There are 5 deep gnomes running the various stalls and a handful of other patrons: a few drow; a couple under-dwarves; and an odd-looking individual on the outskirts than keeps coming in and looking at a stall or two and then walking out. He seems uneasy. I approach him and on closer inspection guess that he is a mix of halfling and dwarf, but I could be wrong. He looks quite old and has a patchy beard and uneven mustache. When I approach him I can't understand what he says. I try common and goblin but he doesn't understand either. He appears to cast a spell and suddenly we can understand each other. I ask him what he's doing and he says it's none of my business and asks what I'm doing. I say I'm trying to identify some potions and he says he can do it for 100 gold peices per potion. I try to barter him down to 100 GP for two potions but he is stubborn. I try offering a trade of services, inquiring if he needs help with anything. This seems to make him nervous. He pulls me close and whispers "This isn't a goo place to talk. I've been following these drow. They have my family. I want to get them back, but not here, we need to follow them back to their base". He says he'll identify anything I want if I help him save his family. I need to talk to the group about this so tell him I have an answer shortly. He tells me to hurry.

Verril, Zahkam, Dezo, Yuk Yuk, and Spider Bait are in favour of helping the weird geezer. Only Neznar is against it. We didn't ask Fargas or Boopido their opinion. Fargas wants us to go after the treasure but doesn't have much choice so agrees to come along. As we're discussing this the drow start to leave the bazaar. We quickly decide to just leave Boopido behind, quickly telling him this as we go and he seems fine with it. 

We catch up to the old fella, find out his name is Errug, and start following the drow on the sly.

We follow them for a while before we hear the sound of rushing water - another underground river. We begin to see a sickly green glow as we approach the oppening of a tunnel and the sound of the water get louder. The tunnel opens up to a large cavern with a river going through it. On the other side of the river about 100 feet from us is a camp with 3 large tents. The cavern is light by large (human sized) mushrooms that give of the green light we've been seeing.

We decide on a full frontal stealth attack. We need to get accross the river quietly for this to work but Zahkam trips and lets out a yelp, alerting the drow. I think Zahkam is even more clumsy than me. Verril and Dezo jump across the river to engage the drow, with Neznar and Gilberto following close begind. The rest of us (myself, Zahkam, Yuk Yuk, Spider Bait, and Fargas) stay on the far side of the river and launch projectiles.

We should have been able to overpower them quickly, but the drow cast darkness, making us on the far side of the river almost useless, drawing out the battle. We still win without any casualties and with two prisoner drow who surrendered.

Verill does some looting of the corpses and finds some gold, shortswords, hand crossbows, and 2 arcane staffs.

There's no sign of Errug's family, but he doesn't seem to be looking. He just uses some magic to execute the captured drow. That sneaky old goat. There was no family, this was just a personal vendetta. It's annoying to be tricked, but the drow probably deserved it so I'm not too torn up about it.

The pretense was false but we still had a bargain so I ask Errug to identify our potions and Verril's crystal. The 3 red potions are for healing, as we expected, and the other is a potion of water breathing. I'm not sure how that will help us but we might as well keep it around just in case. He tels us that Verril's crystal is a natural forming crystal used for for distractions and such, since it makes a small explosion and bright flash when broken. He demonstrated by throwing Verril's crystal on the ground, releasing a bright flash and loud bang. In the confusion and disorientation of the falsh and bang Errug runs away. When we regain our sight and hearing he is gone without a trace. There are two small pieces of the crystal left that could still be used for that same purpose and Verril takes them. Errug tricked us again but it wasn't really malevolent, he was probably just worried that we were mad about him lying. This was a bit of a waste of time, but oh well. No real harm done so let's just move on.

Fargas reminds us about his hidden treasure and he shows us his secret map - the item he had been worried was missing when we first found him. He also gives us the back story about how he was looking for the lost tomb when he made his way to the Silken Path and hired Yuk Yuk and Spider Bait's services and then got taken by the spiders after his friends were killed by them. Map might be a bit of stretch for what he showed us. '*Cryptic rough semi-guide riddle*' is a better description. The notes on it are written in dwarvish so Gilberto translates for us. There are some rouch drawings that I suppose represent the 'marks'. As long as I don't have to lead us it's fine, cause it doesn't make much sense to me, but I've never been a map guy. The '*map*' says:  

>*Downwards from the Yawning Portal<br>
You will find your first mark<br><br>
Downwards still to the cavern of crystals<br>
Walk away from the sounds of running water<br>
Stop before the petrified forest<br><br>
Find a way downward that is not the one you've travelled<br>
Walk until your second mark<br><br>
Steel yourself for the path of silk<br>
Traverse until the third mark and begin to head upwards<br><br>
Find the titan and traverse it<br>
Beware its contents<br>
Exit upwards and climb until you can no longer<br>
If you have reached the Maw, turn back<br><br>
Head leftwards until the way narrows<br>
Upwards until the path opens<br>
If your spine is tingling it is too late for you<br><br>
Walk upwards until you reach the hollow mountain<br>
Descend into the Tomb of Khaem<br>
Light the way onto Dawn*


After we this discussion we decide to get some rest and set out in the morning. I agree to be tied up for the night on the off chance that I am comitting the murders in my sleep. I'm sure it's not me, but I'm happy to be tied up if it will makes the others feel better.
