
# Entry 3 - Surfing the webs
<span class="journaldate">2020/02/29</span>
  
As we take stock of our physical condition and catch our breath, Prince Darrendil has some kind of breakdown and lets out a loud growl/roar before running up the wall and through a tunnel. I find this allarming but the rest of the party doesn't seem bothered by it. I just hope that he's ok and returns before long. We decide to rest before moving on. Neznar says that the way Prince Darrendil went is the way we need to go anyway, so if he doesn't return by the time we're rested we'll go after him. Zahkam sings us a soothing song as we settle down to rest and it helps rejuvenate us. 

While we're resting Gilberto goes through some papers he pulled out of his knickers. He says he got from some office when they were escaping. It seems to mostly be in under-common, which he can't read, but some of them seem of a personal nature. He's hesitant to ask for Neznar's help deciphering them. A puzzle for another time.

Prince Darrendil didn't return while we rested so we set off after him. Once in the tunnel I have another look at Neznar's face with a glowing dagger courtesy of Verril. Neznar notices me examining him so I just ask him about it and he says it's a birthmark. It's a pretty gnarly birthmark if that's true, but I don't sense any deception from him. That doesn't mean I believe him, I just can't tell if he's lying. Similar to how I don't trust Boopido. I think the problem is that I'm such a good liar that I'm afraid everyone else is too so I might not be able to tell if they are lying. I certainly don't want to be murdered in my sleep, but our lives are very much in Neznar's hands for now.

We walk for what feels like ages, through tunnels of various sizes, some feeling a tad cramped, others more spacious. We eventually come to a large 'room' with many exits. There are natural pillar-like structures that appear to be holding the cave up, but that might just be my imagination, I'm no geologist (though I have impersonated one before). Anyway, Neznar seems to know where he's going and leads us down one of the tunnels.

Eventually we start to hear running water and growling that sounds like it could be Prince D. We also hear talking in the distance that could be drow. We cautiously continue on and come to a river but don't see anyone around. There are large claw marks on the ground that could have been made by a quaggoth. The river is shallow so we can simply wade accross. Verril tries to catch some of the small fish in his hands but they are too slippery.

Before heading on we realize that we are likely going to end up in a fight. Maybe it's the stress, or maybe I still don't trust him, but I was a serious dick to Boopido about him not participating in the last battle at all. He's a tiny old gnome that (unless he's hiding something) has no martial or magical abilities to speak of, so I shouldn't be surprised that he just hides when things get violent. I offer to show him how to use a crossbow next time we rest so he can help us out. 

We can hear sounds of battle and what sounds like Prince D. roaring (screeming?) so we run ahead to try to get to him to help if he's in trouble. There are several paths but Neznar grabs my shoulder and tells me "If you want to save your friends, go that way". There is a tunnel that leads straight down about 40 feet with a faint blue glow at the bottom. We can see shadows so we know there is something/someone down there. There are three grappling hooks set up for rapelling down so we decide that Neznar, Gilberto, and Verril should go down first and then myself, Dezo and Zahkam will follow, with Boopido and Dorn taking up the rear.


This goes astray almost immediately. The first three get down the ropes alright but once at the bottom Neznar accidentaly steps on and breaks some crystals which alerts what turn out be drow in a room at the bottom where the blueish light is coming from. So before the rest of us get down there the fighting begins. Dezo makes it down the rope alright but Dorn, myself, and Zahkam have some trouble. Dorn and myself can't quite get the hang of it and go down extrememly slowly. Painfully slowly. Zahkam was going slowly too but decided to try being fancy and slide down. He got down, but it looked like it hurt a bit.

When Dorn and myself were around halfway down the roped gave way and we fell. I landed hard. Shortly after our fall, the fight was concluded with the last remaining drow running down a pasageway. My immediate thought was that Boopido cut the ropes, since he was still up top. It turned out they weren't cut, just unhooked, but I still thought it was Boopido because who else could have done it?

We looked around and looted the bodies and discovered that what we had thought might be the sounds of Prince Dareendil were in fact him. We didn't get there in time to help him and he was overpowered by the drow and a quaggoth. 

I yelled up to Boopido at the top of the cliff to see what had happened and he claims he didn't know. He denies unhooking the ropes and claims he had gone back over to the river when the fighting was going on because he was scared. Verril tried to throw the rope up so that Boopido could come down but he failed in his first attempt and gave up and walked off. We ended up getting it hooked on and then there was a deafening explosion that occured when Verril hit the glowing crystal structure in the middle of the room with his sword. He broke a piece off, which is what he wanted, but he could have killed himself and us. Luckily no one was hurt, but I gave him a few stern words.

The explosion didn't help with coaxing Boopido down the cliff but I eventually convinced him to come down so we could get going. We looted the bodies and buried Prince Derrendil before going after the last drow that had run away because Neznar said it was the way to Neverlight Grove.

As we continue to walk we get to another cavern with mutliple tunnels and natural pillar-like structures. We also pass a large obelisk. As we continue to walk for several more hours we occasionally hear faint chittering. I don't know what it is but I don't like it.

Neznar guides us and helps us avoid issues, having us pause/hide/sneak by things that sound menacing but we can't see, such as the flapping of large wings. I'm happy not knowing what creatures we almost saw. This is still my first adventure and think I might have picked a real doozy. Maybe after a few more months or years of experience I'll be ready to face whatever monster comes my way, but for now I'm happy to hide and sneak when possible. 

We manage to avoid further incident and eventually come to an open area with a large archway that has lights around chest height. As we approach the archway we begin to hear the sound of wind rushing and the air begins to shimmer. The archway is at the edge of a cliff of an enormous gorge. The gorge is filled with an immense expanse of giant spider webs. Some of the webs look quite old and some look new. Some of the webs look strong enough to walk on as a way to cross the gorge. The idea of walking across the gorge does *not* fill me with joy, but Neznar says that's the way. He says we should stick to the older webs, as they likely don't have active spiders patrolling or mainting them, but not to walk on the really old ones, as they might fall apart.

Before we can set out we see two figures approach very rapidly. They seem to be sliding on the webs somehow. Once they approach us we see they are goblins, one short and one tall (for a goblin). They were riding a small sled that they stand on, as a way to quickly traverse the webs. Their names are Yuk Yuk and Spider Bait. Yuk Yuk is the short one and is very lively and seems fond of shiny things (going by the amount of jewelry he wears). Sdider Bait is the taller one and seems very morose, but maybe it's just that he talks slowly in a monotone voice and dresses plainly, especially compared to his companion.

As they approach I can hear them shooting the shit in goblin, which I decide not to let them know I understand... yet. It may come in handy later. They say something about customers and seem to perk up a bit. It turns out they are guides for the webs, which they call the Silken Paths. They seem very competant and friendly and Neznar thinks they would be helpful as guides since he doesn't know the webs so we decide to hire them for the reasonable price (... I have no idea what reasonable is for giant spider web guides, but it's what I tell myself) of 10 gold pieces per day for the pair of them. They expect it to take 2 days to get to the edge of the webs that will get us to Neverlight Grove. With the arrangements confirmed and paid for, we are set to set off... or so I thought.

We were given the choice of walking the webs or riding them on the small sleds. I immediately voted for the sleds since it would be faster and honestly, looked like fun. I was wrong. Before setting out we did some stationary practice. Boopido wasn't confident so Zahkam offered to carry him. I thought it would be easy but I struggled and almost fell when we weren't even moving! At least I got a light source. Yuk Yuk hands me a small sphere that erupts into a swarm of bugs that attach to my arm and give off light. Cool... I guess. Safer than a torch, since the webs are supposedly pretty flammable.

As we set off I continue to struggle at web-boarding but I manage to not completely wipe out and fall to my death. Yuk Yuk is in the lead and Spider Bait is in the back, with the rest of us in between. 

Eventually, Yuk Yuk stops us because he sees a spider preparing some cocoons and then leaving. He suggests we loot the cocoons since the spiders don't 'clean' their food before eating it and there could be some good stuff. He claims first pick but will let us have most of it. He jumps across a small gap in the webs and so do some of the others. When I go to jump, my foot lands in a soft spot and I start to fall and then I panic a bit and grab at the web and part of it breaks, causing others to fall as well. Everyone manages to catch something without falling too far, but I end up with a spider in my face and it quickly attacks me, biting me in the neck. Its poison burns through me and I feel myself weakend greatly. I manage to retaliate with some (oops) fire magic that destroys more of the webs. Luckily they didn't all catch fire, but it caused more trouble for the others. I was so disoriented from falling and surprised from having a spider suddenly in my face and biting my neck that I was almost useless in the fight and the others had to save me. Gilberto lost consciousness and almost died from a spider bite to his neck but luckily we were able to save him and everyone else seemed ok.

After climbing out we go on to loot the cocoons. There were three cocoons, the first two had some long dead human looking corpses and the third had a halfling that wasn't quite dead. When he came to we learned his name is Fargas Rumblefoot and he had been crossing the webs with Yuk Yuk and Spider Bait. He was pretty upset with them for leaving him to die but we managed to calm him down. Yuk Yuk and Spider Bait are guides, not bodyguards or sworn protectors. They'll help if they can but they won't die saving their customers. I'll chalk up Fargss' hysteria to him waking up inside his cocoon. 

After a brief introduction we loot the other cocoons which contain a pouch with two small black spheres. Yuk Yuk takes one of the spheres as his share of the loot, since he called first pick. He says they are *beads of force*. I can imagine what they might do, but I'll let Verril test the one we have left. I'm sure he'd love to, it's just a matter of stopping him until the appropriate time. The corpses also had three red vials of an unknown substance, 5 unknown coins that aren't quite silver but have a white glimmer to them, and some gold and rings.

During the looting Fargas seems to be looking for something on his person that he can't find at first and it seems cause him some distress. He does find it and seems very relieved but he didn't take it out so I don't know what it was. I'll have to ask him about it later.

With the looting completed we decide we should find a place to rest and talk, since Gilberto and myself are in very rough shape. Luckily, it took less than an hour to reach a safe area. It's a very small hollowed out cave in a giant support pillar, roughly 20 by 20 feet.

Now that we are safe we can rest and talk. We need to find out more about this Fargas character, such as why he's down here, how he got here, how he plans to get out, and what was the item he was checking for when he got out of the cocoon?




  
  