
# Entry 19 - Confront Phylo
<span class="journaldate">2020/10/21</span>
  
After a good rest we awake in sovereign Basidia's underground work room. She has given us some equipment as thanks for taking care of the two monster problems they'd been having. We afer gathering our things and mentally and physically preparing for whatever is to come we head out to see sovereign Phylo and the Garden of Welcome to find out what's going on. Hopefully we'll be able to relay something usuful to Basidia that will help the Mycanids.

We entered the smog of the "new" grove which made Dezo Iankul, ad Zackham act wierd for a bit but it passed without any major accidents. We were hoping to sort of sneak around and investigate but that didn't work at all. However, when we arrived Phylo was very excited to show us to the garden so it didn't seem like stealth was necessary. He left us at the antrance and told us to continue. When we entered the dense mushroom forest we heard a noise that continued as we continued. Not a good noise. The way opened up to area filled with various fungal vegetations. The muffled groans (the sound we had heard earlier but coudln't quite identify) became a droning of agony as the the varioud mounds of dirt/fungus scattered about the ground began to writhe. These were bodies, not quite dead but close. One drow had enough energy tos peak a few words of warning and plead for a quick death. Dezo fulfilled his wish and shortly after, from a tunnel of from the side of the clearing, a giant floating sphere emerged. It's skin was slick and sickly with hundredss of small holes along the bottom side emitteing a green gas, seemingly keeping itself afloat. It had two mismatched eyes focused on the group.

A demonic voice echoed in our minds and throughout the cavern. I don't remember the words, but it was obviously not friendly.
  