
# Entry 6 - To kill a murderer
<span class="journaldate">2020/04/18</span>
  
Zahkam ties me up as we preapre to rest. Just to be safe, I try to escape my bonds and somehow get out almost easily. Escaping this type of bondage is not my specialty, so I don't know what Zahkam was doing. If I didn't know Zahkam I would think he wanted my bonds to be loose for some nefarious purpose. But since I *do* know him, I'm sure he just accidentally messed up on the knots. He's a great guy, but he tends to bumble seemingly simple things from time to time. As a fellow bumbler, I feel a kinship with him... but will continue to double check his knots.

Yuk Yuk and Gilberto redo the knots and tie me much more securely. I can barely move a muscle. I might not get the best sleep, but I certainly won't be killing anyone. 

Before we settle down to sleep, Yuk Yuk and Spider Bait ask to join our mission to the tomb as guides. They again want 10 gold pieces per day for their services as under dark experts and for their assistance in battle. This is of course on top of their share of the loot. They give us the night to think about it.

After they go to their claimed tent we have a brief discussion and agree that the extra manpower and knowledge of the area will be useful. We take stock of our finances and decide we can easily afford their service and we will likely find more wealth at the tomb so we agree to hire them in the morning.

As we settle in for sleep, Dezo takes the first watch, with Gilberto and then Zahkam planned to follow.

It isn't easy falling asleep in these vice-like ropes, but I manage it. As I drift off I suddenly feel awake and very warm. My extremeties heat up to the point of pain. It's all balck around me as I stand up and smoke is coming from my boots, which feel like they're on fire. I feel a familiar presence behind me and hear my patron's voice:

>"*You are the most abysmal servant I've ever had. You had very simple instructions and have failed to carry any of them out. You've been bested by that 'gnome'. The gnome has been taking what I wanted. Kill him or I will devour your soul. You have one day.*"

Or something like that. I can't remember exactly. I was so suprised to hear him tell me straight out that it was Boopido all along! My patron is *maaaad*. I'm not sure if it's more mad at me or Boopido, but at least I have a way to get back in their good books. *(Is that a good thing? Do I want to be in the 'good books' of a demon?)*

I awake unsure how much time has passed but decide to let everyone get a full rest before breaking the news. If we're going to go after him we'll need to be well rested.

---

Zahkam wakes everyone up and unties me. I call everyone over for a conference around the breakfast fire. I tell them about my dream and that I'm going after Boopido and would like their help, although they don't have to come, since it isn't their soul on the line. Gilberto, Dezo, Zahkam, Verril, and Neznar are obviously keen to get revenge on the little bastard for murdering our companions while mooching off of us. It's pretty obvious that Boopido did unhook our ropes when Dorn and I fell that time when Prince Darrendil died. The little shit.

Fargas isn't happy about the side trip but obviously has little choice. Yuk Yuk and Spider Bait are happy to join us - for their fee, which I happily pay. After breakfast we set off to return to the market at the obelisk to find Boopido and kill him.

After a couple hours of walking we get to a familar tunnel near the market. We can hear the sound of animals breathing/hissing and the pattering of feet. We turn a corner to some stairs leading down and come almost face to face with four of the giant lizards we saw at the market earlier. Verril and Neznar are at the front and draw their swords. Dezo yells "Stop! We don't need to fight!" and shapeshifts into a giant lizard. He isn't quick enough to stop them and Verril and Neznar start cutting into the two lizards at the front. The rest of us heed Dezo's words and don't fight. I try to stop one of the lizards by blasting some magic above it's head and it kind of sort of almost works... the lizard changes course, I don't know what I really expected, but it doesn't attack me. Verril and Neznar stop their attacks and the lizards flee. Before they get away Dezo notices the body of deep gnome being dragged by the saddle straps of one of the lizards. He snaps at the straps as the lizard flees and the body falls to the ground and lays still. The gnome is dead. It looks like he was tortured before dying. The killing blow seems to be the fist sized hole in his back roughly where his heart should be. He appears to be one of the gnomes that was manning a stall in the market.

We continue on with Dezo taking the lead in lizard form. When we reach the market we see a lot of blood and bodies. There are bodies staked to the walls, there is a circle with body parts arrayed in a pattern that reminds me of the night murders we've been victim too. I didn't doubt my wise benelovent patron (*does he read my journal?*) but if any of the others doubted my story, this will likely convince them. From a pile of a couple of lizards we see a hand push through and a cut up body follow. It's another gnome, the one that shooed Dezo away when he tried to get close to the lizards. He is injured but alive. He thinks Dezo is one of his pets and is talking to him and giving him weird looks. Dezo circles around him to get some Stoop spores on him so we can communicate. This confuses the gnome since it still thinks Dezo is his pet.

We approach the gnome and ask him what happened. He asks why we left "that creature" here. Apparently Boopido asked for shelter and the gnomes acoomodated him but during the night this gnome woke up to the sounds of a masacre. Boopido had transformed into a large black creature with big claws and magical powers. He killed everyone. This gnome survived by being hit with some magic that didn't kill him and then having some lizards die on top of him which kept him hidden. He breaks into tears as he tells us about what he saw and heard.

Verril searches the area for useful items while Yuk Yuk and Spider Bait look for a clues about where Boopido went. Verril finds some money and I take a nice wand to use as a focus. The goblins find Boopido's trail and we set out after it. 

I overhear Fargas mumblin to himself as he looks at his map at it appears we're going in the right direction for the tomb too. That's nice at least, we won't have to backtrack after killing Boopido.

We walk for about 2 hours, mostly going up. It gets warmer and the scenery is constantly changing. Always caverns and tunnels, but the look and feel of them changes frequently. We come to a clearing full of vegetation - some kind of green moss or lichen - and ahead is a violet haze in the air. The path Yuk Yuk and Spider Bait bring us on includes jumping across a broken archway. I seem to be doing better athletically now that we're off the Silken Path, but Fargas nearly falls. Neznar and Verril are there to grab him and it's fine, but then Zahkam jumps. He just barely makes it, but then the edge gives way and he falls. Luckily, he manages to grab hold of the edge before plummeting to his almost certain death, and Neznar and Verril pull him up. Seriously, it feels like at least one of us is always almost falling to our death. 

The next few hours pass without incident, until we begin to apraoch a large cliff. On our right is a jagged cave wall and on our left is a sheer cliff descending into nothingness. There is still a purple haze in the air without any clear source. 

The haze stats to give way to big brightly glowing purple crystals, roughly doule the size of a human, jutting out of the ground at various angles. We hear a mad cackle from somewhere ahead of us. Yuk Yuk tells us that we've almost caught up. We get in battle formation and prepare for the fight. We give a healing potion each to our melee fighters, Verril, Neznar, and Gilberto. Dezo is behind them and the rest of us take up the rear.

I'm a bit nervous because my Fiendish Vigor (temporary health buffer provided by my patron) is weaker than usual. I'm not sure why, but have a suspicious it is because my patron is displeased with me and is witholding some of his power.

Unsurprisingly, Verril can't resist touching one of the crystals. Reality seems to shimmer around him and he vanishes.  We hear an excited/panicked yelp about a hundred feet to our left and the mad cackling abruptly stops.

Verril starts yelling out "Hey guys? Where are you?". We hear Boopido call out "I hear you! I know you've been following me for a while. I'm excited that we can be together again", in a creepy voice that seems to echo out of the crystals around us.

Boopido, in his deadly form, appears in front of us near one of the crystals. He is close to nine feet tall with smooth black skin and large claws, just like the deep gnome described. For the slow readers out there, the crystals teleport you around this chamber, which is much more usuful for Boopido than it is for us.

It is a long and difficult battle. I try using my magic a couple of times but the effect is pretty pathetic and I switch to my crossbow. I'm pretty sure my patron is withholding his power, since I feel fine, it's just my magic that feels very week.

Boopido has powerful ice magic that takes Gilberto and Verril down before the end of it, but Dezo manages to save them. He also uses silence and sleep spells. This is probably why he was able to carry out the murders without anyone noticing.

With so many of us shooting crossbows at him, we eventually wear him down and I finally finished him off with a bolt to his throat, cutting off his stupid maniacal laugh once and for all. As he dies the area around him grows very cold and light seems to swirl around his body and then shoot towards me and enter me. I'm given brief visions of the people he's killed. I see Vawyn and Dorn, but also many, many others. It's over in an instant but I won't soon forget the horrible things I saw.

