

# Entry 27 - The Founder
<span class="journaldate">2021/01/20</span>
  
**_NOTE_** I missed this session. I listened to the audio recoridng while doing other things and later made some *very* brief notes.


After all that excitment I'm pretty tired and am having trouble paying attention to what the group is doing.

We got chatted with Galdry some more trying to get information but he didn't know much. The Grey Knights returned and we went with them to check the aftermath of the fog. It turns out that this is the first time the fog has come twice in quick succession. There is normally a long break between fogs. This is why the Grey Knights weren't around; they were still out hunting down ghouls from the previous fog a few days ago.

The settlement is at the end of a lake and the edge of the lake is where new people come from. When the fog comes is rolls in from across the lake.  We learn that they can't go far from the settlement, if they do they lose control and become mindless ghouls. They are essentially trapped in the town.

We decide we'd like to investigate this lake to see where the fog is coming from. We decide to go see the founder first through. While most of us go to talk to the founder, Verril and the mycanids stay behind to build a boat for crossing the lake. 

The founder is an interesting fellow, but definitely a bit crazy. He forbids investigation of the source of the fog. He rambles on about "Tomin the betrayer" who is the one tied to the bell. This Tomin apparently tried to investigate the fog before, against the founder's wishes. I didn't catch all of the conversation but I think the others were paying closer attention so I'm sure they'll bring up any relevant points later if it's important. We didn't get much else out of the Founder as he kind of went into a stupor or something. The knights say he is lucid all that often so I guess we should be glad we got at least a few minutes of understandable conversation.



  