

# Entry 26 - We save ghouls now?
<span class="journaldate">2021/01/06</span>
  
Considering how easy a ghoul is to kill, this fight is tough. The fog limiting our vision, the sheer number of them, and the fact that we're trying to not kill them, really ups the challenge.

Some of us are outside but some are inside the barn. I couldn't see or hear anything going on in the barn so I just had to trust that they were ok. Xapahn's vision doesn't help with fog so even using his eyes I could only see ten feet in front of me. I eventually got the idea to send Xaphan up about 30 feet into the air to get a view of the battlefield. The fog is heavy and is thickest close to the ground so I hoped he would be able to see something from up high. I can make out where people are since we are thankfully all tall-ish. Once I look through Xaphan I notice that there are two ghouls at the end of Dezo wind spell attacking the Mycanids! Unfortunately I can't aim with Xaphan's sight when he isn't on my shoulder so I have to move closer and signal the others to protect the mycanids.

*I should try to train with Xaphan for aiming spells when he* isn't *on my shoulder*

When all was said and done, Verril got paralyzed, and Iankul and a mycanid got knocked out and needed to be revived. Really, Iankul, again? Maybe you need to work on your positioning. We managed to knock out several of the ghouls without killing them so we then started tying them up and putting them in the grel cages in the barn. 

Dezo's wind spell wears off as we finish securing the still-living-undead and we can suddenly hear again. The bell is still ringing but we don't hear any sounds of fighting. We decided to go check out the worker area where we saw them cutting down a tree earlier. There is a bit of a compound there so presumably several people that potentially need help.

I send Xaphan but up and share his sight while holding onto Dezo. I can't make out any details, I just see silhouettes of the top of people. We are only but more than a hundred feet from the worker area but it seems to take ages to walk over there because of the damn fog. From Xaphan's point of view there doesn't seem to be anyone outside, which I suppose is a good thing.

We check the buildings in the worker compound. The doors are locked and there are scratches on the doors, walls, and shutters. We get a response from a few of the doors from scared people hiding out until the fog passes. After we check all the buildings we gather to chat about what to do next. It seems like there is nothing left for us to do so we head back to the Cat's Claw. Iankul has a bit of a panic attack about the fog and the fact that we are breathing it and what's going on blah blah blah. He doesn't seem "dangerous crazy" so Dezo just asks Verril to keep an eye on him in case his 'condition' gets worse.

The door is locked at the in (or maybe something is blocking it) so we can't walk right in. Iankul freaks out a bit and does a running shoulder charge straight at the door,  it isn't very effective. I call out to Galdry to let us in and he opens the door. Just as he starts to open it Iankul does a second shoulder charge and he goes lfying into the inn like a buffoon. We all go in wuickly after him and Galdri closes the door behind us. Galdri and Carl and stull just hanging out with hammers but now there are also two corpses on the ground (unconcious or dead?).


